**[00:02] SPEAKERS_05:** OK, well, we have a special treat for you. Before we get into our regular scheduled content, we are adding a new weekly segment called Strato Spotlight, where we highlight the latest and greatest features on Strato. And for this week, we have a really special one. Kieran, why don't you announce it?

SPEAKER_04: Thanks, Victor. So we completed our relaunch onto version 2 a little over a month ago and wanted to monitor the system a little bit to just make sure everything was working well before we turned rewards back on. We have done that as of this Thursday. We haven't been loud about it just yet. We've been testing a little bit internally, and it seems all good to go. Michael will show you a little bit about what I'd call season one of our rewards program. Season zero was very successful, bringing in about eight million of TVL.

SPEAKER_02: And we hope to see similar and greater results with the new rewards program. Over to Michael. Hi, everyone. So I'm introducing the new rewards program. This page will be under the rewards section under the tab. You can find it here. This activities tab shows all the different activities people are doing in order to obtain rewards on the platform. Some are one-time, such as lending from the borrowing pool here or just making a contribution to liquidity in the swapping pools, as this person has done. We're going to start with the CDP mint. Go to advanced. Go to here. We have to first add a collateral to the vault. I believe this account has some EFST. Going to deposit it. There you go. Deposited. We can borrow. I'm just going to borrow, let's say, 100 USDST—91, rather. There you go. Then we borrow the 91 USDST, and that would be accruing rewards as a position.

Next, we're going to do a deposit to the lending pool. We have about, let's see, 496. Let's deposit 100 here. Great. Now we're going to do a swap, which is a one-time position. Let's do 100 swap assets. And add to liquidity pools. When you add to liquidity pools, it is an ongoing position. So then every time, as long as you leave your funds in the pool, you'll be accruing rewards. Turn deposit here. Great. And now we have the regular borrow functionality. Right now, I had deposited, I believe, two ETH earlier. So I'm going to just borrow a little bit here, and this will be accruing rewards ongoing also. Great. Borrowed.

Now I just want to show you the My Rewards section of the page. We have this claimable section that you can claim at any time—there's no minimum—but this also shows your active positions, such as the lending pool position that we took, lending and borrowing, and any kind of liquidity that you contribute to the swap pools. I'm gonna claim here. And it's as simple as that.

SPEAKER_05: Back over to you guys. Awesome. Thank you, Michael. And we should highlight for everyone: if you look at the activities, there's a long list of activities that you can do to earn Straddle points. And also, if you currently are engaged in one of the activities—for example, if you already have put some into a swapping pool or the lending pool—you have to take it out and put it back in.

SPEAKER_04: To re-enable rewards for the system. Kieran, anything you want to add? Just that this was on testnet; it is live on livenet. You'll see very slight differences when you do so.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, so thank you, everyone. Please start using the reward system. We'd love to give out lots of rewards to you. We, you know, in preparation to launching our full mainnet and making these rewards tradable in the future. So thank you for tuning in. Hope you use our rewards and tune in for more Strato Spotlight segments in the future. Take care. Okay, we are live, and we have a very special episode today. We are talking about the future of art and NFTs, and we're joined by special guest and very old friend, John Crane. Welcome, John Crane.

SPEAKER_01: Hey, Victor. Hey, everyone. Good to see you guys. Thanks for having me. John Crane, of course, as everyone knows, is the founder of SuperRare. But do you want to give a quick intro for anyone who is not intimately familiar with all the amazing things you've done over the past couple of years? Yeah, sure. So yeah, my crypto journey started in around 2015, going to the Consensus Hackathon where I met at least three of the other folks on this call there. Before that, my background was kind of in art and technology. I worked in advertising. I studied architecture and structural engineering for undergrad. And yeah, I was always really interested in when crypto and blockchain were going to intersect more with kind of the consumer tech and just things that were a little bit past finance and trading. And so, yeah, when I saw NFTs, it was an instant win for digital art, and so I doubled down immediately.

I remember how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally. Obviously we met there, but like, what was that? Yeah, well, your idea—no, so I was kind of hanging out with the New York Bitcoin crowd. Actually, yeah, I had actually met—I think John Lilic, which I forgot—but I met him at the New York Bitcoin Center. I don't know if you guys remember that. Yeah, we do. Yeah, so I was hanging around and actually I was super into Counterparty. So I was very much like, "Ethereum is too complicated. You know, Vitalik's full of shit. It's not going to work." And then the network launched and I was like, "OK, I was wrong. Like, this is actually super cool." I have no problem changing my mind. I was totally wrong. This is amazing. And I was just like Googling "Ethereum blockchain hackathon." I was trying to find a way to get deeper involved. I was trying to quit my day job and go full-time crypto, and so then I think I just Googled it and it was like, "Oh, there's this hackathon in two weeks," and I applied with Charles, and then yeah, met you guys.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, and to be clear, to let everyone know that we were blown away by you and your brother Charles' project, and we gave you, I think, your first job, both of you in Web3, right? We gave you the... Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Exactly, yeah. I think the Monday after, I feel like I immediately quit and started working with you guys full-time on BlockApps. Yeah, I think we tried to give you a job on the spot because you guys were... Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: There was like a couple-week consulting transition period while, you know... Yeah, I think that's true. Yeah, maybe it was like we started hourly, like getting to know each other a little bit, and then full time. Yeah. So with Counterparty, you could have been on Krista Rose Tech. Yeah, exactly. If only.

SPEAKER_05: So what inspired SuperRare? I know when you were working with us, you kind of became our head of product and you were working on a bunch of those enterprise implementations. But what triggered you to kind of create SuperRare, which is—for anyone who doesn't know—one of the first NFT platforms really out there?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean, it was super interesting, right? You know, like we were all kind of on the ground floor at the Consensus office—or at least me and Kieran are hanging out there—and like watching the ICO boom happen was fascinating. Cause I was like, I remember me and Kieran talked a bunch about ERC-20 tokens, and I found it super interesting that it was this very small bit of standard, a super simple protocol, very simple code. But the adoption created massive wealth generation. And even if there were also lots of scams, I'd say generally net positive for humans in the economy. Like it was incredible to see that happen.

And so then I saw some of the standards conversations around ERC-721 and I saw the CryptoPunks launch, and I was like, "Well, this is pretty crazy. If you think about the consumer web, it's all an image and a title tag and some metadata. It could be that the entire consumer web turns into NFTs," and I don't know exactly what the business model is going to look like, but the total addressable market is probably pretty large. So that got me into NFTs.

And then on the flip side of that, I was also kind of in and around the New York art scene, like going to the art fairs. I had friends who were looking for gallery representation and kind of part of the business of art. And it just seemed obvious. I was like, "Oh, there's now a way to truly own digital assets. And this is obviously going to apply to digital art." So it's kind of like the marriage of my interest in the tech side, but then also my interests and passions around art.

SPEAKER_05: And like, what was it like to be at the forefront of the NFT explosion? Because you guys, like, I know for a long time you were building and it was like, "Oh, you know, how's it going?" And, you know, like, no one is really paying attention. And all of a sudden, you know, next day, everyone's talking about NFTs.

SPEAKER_01: It was absolutely crazy. It was hard to be like—it was just completely surreal the whole time. Like it felt like a dream. Like we started in 2018. We tried to raise money. It never really worked. By the time we raised, we were already cashflow positive and making more than we were paying ourselves. So that's the best situation to possibly be in. Yeah, it was much easier to raise then than when I was like, "I have this really cool idea."

So it was a grind. It was super volatile. Many times I was just like, "What am I doing with my life?" But then it just really started. I remember the numbers were like doubling every month for a while. And I remember October 2020 was our first million-dollar month in volume. And I was just like, "This is wild," because 12 months ago, we were like, "All right, the volume was like $5,000. We made a couple hundred bucks." Okay.

Were you guys the first self-minting NFT platform? I think we're trying to talk about that actually. Yeah, we were the first to come—I think there were maybe a couple other minting tools, but we were the first to combine the minting and the marketplace experience. So there weren't great minting tools then, so we started with the minting tool and then we're like, "All right, I guess people need a place to sell this. So we'll build the marketplace too." And you know, it's partially just out of necessity because the tooling sucked at the time.

SPEAKER_05: It's funny because I remember, if you recall, what later became the Flow guys doing CryptoKitties. They were based in Vancouver and I was talking to them about running it on our blockchain and doing that kind of stuff too at the time. And I mean, you've done so much. One of the amazing things is the launch of the Rare token. And you guys seem to be one of the first projects that was really committed to figuring out DAO governance in reality. What led to that and how did that go? What did you figure out there?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean, you know, early on, I was part of what got me excited about Bitcoin and Ethereum—the idea of these networks where the users of the networks also participate in the upside of the network. You know, like the "Fat Protocol" article that was super popular in 2016. So just thinking about, OK, what does monetization look like? And can you build platforms that are more collaborative than extractive? Like, if you're Meta, you're just going to extract as much metadata and sell ads, which is a great business. But partially for me, it was almost like a thought experiment: is it possible to build a network where you don't have to sell ads? Maybe it's a marketplace as the business model, and then it's collective ownership via the token.

So yeah, I was drinking a lot of the crypto Kool-Aid at the time. Did you do it like classic ICO style? Was there like a fixed price auction? How did the Rare get in there? Yeah, we actually just did a huge airdrop. Probably one of our mistakes. We should have probably sold a bunch of tokens, but we actually just gave them away. And yeah, there's plenty of challenges. DAOs are hard to manage and run. But it's cool to see the current administration kind of change tack and actually seem like they're interested in building and pushing forward.

What do you think the biggest challenge was in running a DAO? Because I think all of us had that sort of ideal state with the crypto Kool-Aid—running things completely decentralized. What do you think are the challenges you faced when you did it and that are still out there? Yeah, I mean, I think still one of the bigger challenges is regulatory. You're kind of trying to read the tea leaves, and rather than just making the bet, you're like, "Okay, well, this is not clear what this means. So maybe we should do this. How do we not get in trouble for trying to experiment?" And it's obviously friendlier now, but there's still no clear rules. You know, it's like the Gensler era of enforcement—the dark ages. Gary's going to be turning up for a job somewhere soon, isn't he? Yeah. Man. Do you think of it as the advice?

SPEAKER_04: Do you think of it more like it should be like a representative democracy? Like should it be like passing bills in there? I think they're like proposals, and there's like delegation usually is the model. Yeah. It can also be like just a couple of leaders, but the stake could call a confidence vote or something. Or like people like futarchy too. I haven't tried it yet, but what's that? Like MetaDAO is trying to do that sort of thing. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I think it kind of depends on specifically what you're doing. You know, if it's something like Bitcoin and Ethereum—they're obviously not DAOs—but if small changes can have potentially catastrophic impact, that's one thing. If it's like SuperRare, where there's a low-level protocol and there's an application, and other than the escrow contracts for auctions, the stakes are fairly low. I do kind of like the idea of empowering a team or a few individuals to just keep going, and then the token holders can tell people to stop versus having to approve everything. That's a very silly, arduous process. And I feel like it should be more like, okay, if you're veering off in the wrong direction, there's a way to raise your voice and influence it.

SPEAKER_05: You know, having a vote on like what color the button should be or something is very absurd. I'm curious, like, you know, given that you're a decentralization advocate, how do you balance being a curated kind of platform and being open? You know, like, how do you think about those two? Because I think one of the advantages of SuperRare with the curation side in art is you keep the quality very, very high, unlike more marketplace-type NFT platforms which just frankly put a ton of crap out there. So yeah, how do you balance those two and kind of keep decentralized? Do you think...? Yeah, no, it is—I mean, it's kind of challenging. It's almost a paradox. But I think we've kind of always taken the...

SPEAKER_01: Minimal decentralization—so it's like you have it where it's useful. And then one example is like we were talking about token models early on: maybe we'll have token holders vote on artists. And I was just like, "That sounds like the most dramatic terrible thing I could ever imagine. People voting, 'Your art's terrible'—oh my word."

SPEAKER_04: I mean, in the pump.fun streamer heyday, I think that it could have really worked during that period of time. Yeah, you know, maybe we could have people stream. Yeah, it's like live going: "Is the art good or bad? Watch this artist threaten to commit suicide." I did stuff on a dating project once where you basically had to be voted in based on your notes, which just seems horrible. Yeah.

SPEAKER_05: Very, very evil, you know. But there's right now 10 pages—remember those? Yes, yes, or Hot or Not or all of those. Oh, yeah, yeah. It's just brutal. But yeah, especially in places, you know, the art industry can be quite vicious, right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, it's challenging and good art is subjective. I feel like the on-chain auctions, escrow on-chain—that makes a lot of sense. On-chain voting for which artists are good—that's kind of like, let people who are making decisions do their thing. And then if it starts to be out of hand, maybe token holders can raise awareness.

And like part of it too—actually early on, we thought we would be more of an open platform. And then as things progressed, there were more tools. We were just trying to build things and add value. And there's a ton of open tooling. So early on, we kind of thought we might have SuperRare as the ultra-curated view into the market, and then maybe another open platform that anyone could use.

I'm curious, like, what was the like—what do you think? It's a two-sided market with artists and art buyers. Did you have to get the artist first to convince them, and how did you do that? Or did you have to get the art first? Yeah, we kind of had to get both first. I mean, we started just out of me experimenting and building. We started with the minting tools. I was going around demoing, talking to people. I guess it first kind of piqued interest of the artists. Like, we were talking about how it would work.

And then when we first launched, there's Jason Bailey, who was kind of an early digital art advocate—a big writer. He ran a company called Club NFT that does NFT art backups. He hit us up and was like, "Hey guys, I know you're getting close with your product. I want to buy this art on Monday. Can I do it on SuperRare?" And I looked at Charlie and I was like, "Jason wants to buy something on mainnet on Monday. What can we do?" That was in like 36 hours. Charlie was like, "Yeah, probably." So we basically stayed up for 36 hours fixing bugs. I'm getting flashbacks to when Microsoft said we want to launch blockchain as a service with you at DevCon 1. Exactly. Oh my God. There are many parallels. Nothing like a good deadline to get things done.

Yes, exactly—especially with a big major event partner that can make or break you. So yeah, just don't have live demos on the end of all of that as well. Yeah, exactly. That's when it gets real risky. We actually—when we did it, there was a funny bug with the React stuff. So we were live—helping, we were screen sharing the transaction with this artist Robbie Barrat and Jason. And we're like literally pushing fixes. It was like, "Oh, we didn't know. I didn't expect that to happen. Okay, one second. All right, it's deployed. Just reload the page." Lots of cache clearing. I remember about that.

SPEAKER_04: I'm curious what you see as the future of just generally art and NFTs. Can I jump in on this? Yeah, please. Take a take on it. So in DeFi, we're starting to see—as the administration has cleared the way to some extent—it seems like there was pent-up demand for something like a TradFi-DeFi merger. It's not all the way there yet, but it's getting to just be five. Like I see the path to that happening. Do you think NFTs really stay sort of a distinct asset class forever? I know you could talk about your gallery. I know you started to do a lot of physical sales. Like, does it kind of—what, or do they merge? Do they not? Do they?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, et cetera. Like, does trad art become NFT art and digital art or like... Yeah, I think the NFT stuff eventually fades into the background. The real zero to one is cryptographically secure provenance. So you could use that for physical art. You could use it for digital. I think it was more of a breakthrough with digital because you can kind of argue the token is the art. You now have this more liquid asset.

For art specifically, it's just becoming part of the market. I think you'll see NFTs used with digital art, obviously, but also with physical art. No one's really—like, the lack of good data on provenance in the art market and collectibles in general is kind of amazing. It's still like, "Oh, there's a sticker on the back that says it was from this gallery. Probably it was." Nobody knows.

And also, I think a lot of people are really trying to tie the physical asset to the digital asset, which I think is a waste of time. Personally, if you have the physical asset and you also have custody of the certificate of authenticity, that's kind of good enough. You don't really need some complicated tech solution there. And it's hard to imagine a world in which collectors and customers—you just want—I personally have a higher perceived value for physical art that also has an NFT with it. And I think in general, that trend continues. So I think digital art will just become a bigger part of the contemporary art market. And then eventually we'll see NFTs used as certificates of authenticity for all high-value objects.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, I mean, one of the big things I didn't realize is that a friend of mine is an artist and she often gets a request for the value that was paid for it because someone wants to insure it, right? And there's this whole downstream kind of economy—insurance, appraisal, lending—you need much better... And so it's like...

SPEAKER_01: I mean, Kieran, you and I have talked about the lending stuff a little bit. I think the lending market for these types of assets is small just because there's not good information. You could probably really grow that pie quite a bit if you do have easier access to provenance information. Let me add a little on that front. So I felt having been more of an NFT-style RWA marketplace for a while and gone more DeFi...

SPEAKER_04: I thought that people wanted to tokenize to sell things at first, and this is true, but I think it is better that they tokenize to unlock liquidity. Selling could be one way, but people kind of want to hold on to stuff. Like, I don't want to sell my ETH. I don't want to sell my... You know, at the very high end of the market, if you get a wealth manager, they'll maybe extend some credit against your Picasso. But for everybody else—and you probably have a lot of separate money for that too—you can't really... I don't know if people fire-sell their art, but it tends to sit there. And I used to think that was bad, but maybe it should sit there. But the credit markets actually just make it liquid, you know, as we've discussed before, which I think would be super cool. Like, I'm surprised—or we're getting into that world, but we're not. Yeah, we're seeing it. I feel like there's the green shoots of like, okay, here's what's possible. It totally makes sense. I think just...

SPEAKER_01: NFTs are almost like—they're a great... We've talked, a lot of people in crypto love talking about identity and stuff. And to me, NFTs are like a beautiful, very simple digital identity for whatever. You can pack anything you want in that metadata. It's just like a packet full of stuff. It's very simple. They're unique. They're pointers to one specific thing.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, I mean, I love the way you talk about NFTs as certificates of authenticity, because I didn't realize this. We looked into the physical art market for a while and like every auction at Sotheby's when they have a big piece, they have to research it effectively from scratch, right? Like they have to build that entire chain of provenance with every piece that they do, which is an insane amount of work every single time. Yeah, it's a very high-friction process.

SPEAKER_01: The transactions are very, very high friction, which is good—depending on where your position is in the market. Obviously, Sotheby's loves being the keeper of all secrets and information. But I think that's clearly going to be disintermediated with technology. Joe, any new assets or maybe are you guys just declaring war on the auction houses? Other high-end physical goods? Yeah, I mean, we're focusing—our expansion: we launched the gallery earlier this year, offline gallery. It's on the Bowery right next to the museum. And we're showing physical, digital art, installations, projections, all sorts of different things. And yeah, I think our view—if you look at the models, the galleries are not doing great business-wise, the auction houses are hurting.

SPEAKER_04: I think everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model. Stuff is so illiquid—right? I don't mean to interrupt—it's just enormous stuff sitting five years, 10 years, and it's feast or famine. Like if we print a bunch of money, we probably get a bunch of transactions. Yeah, just wait. Yeah, like 2021 people were just buying Picassos on their phones and Crazy Apes.

SPEAKER_01: Crazy Apes, right? Everything. EtherRocks. I remember when EtherRocks were like the prices exploding and I was like, "This is truly amazing." Yeah, I think the models have to change. And just as the Internet's done as far as shopping—you can price compare easily on your phone in any stores. There's no kind of price arbitrage. You're going to look up the price of something, scan something, ask ChatGPT, "What is this? How much should it cost?"

I think the art world has really been an insider's game of who knows who and what's the real price—the marketed price versus what was actually paid. And I think that's slowly unwinding. We'll end up with a market structure where pricing is just much more transparent. You can see things on-chain. And I think that's part of the opportunity: as the market becomes more efficient, we'll have the best tools to service the new structure.

So it sounds like even the big guys want more liquidity, but they're not willing to let go of their proprietary information advantage. Yeah, exactly. And that's kind of the paradox: you'll have more liquidity if there's better access to information, but it's the classic innovator's dilemma. Well, I think some of the auction houses are even trying to offer loans to try and lock people up even longer—to their places. Yeah, they have—I mean, like, they're all Christie's inside of it. Most of the auction houses are private, so I don't know how big their businesses are, but they do have loans.

People will inherit art and they don't really care necessarily, and their advisor says, "Don't sell that. You should just take out a loan." So they do have them. But that seems like a classic conflict of interest—like, "We'll tell you how much it's worth and we'll loan you based on that." It's very one-sided, and you can't really shop it around. It's ultra-specialized information.

Jim, did you want to ask a question? You look like you came off mute. Well, it's a little bit of a different topic, but I'll throw it in right now anyway. What has been the effect—for good or bad—of AI and art on what you're doing?

SPEAKER_05: Do you think, going back to the metadata and certificates of authority, that proving some part was done by a human will be valued into art or any kind of creation?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean, just like if you see the rate at which content's being created—it's super amazing. You can watch a video of like, that person didn't actually say that, but it looks like they did. I think that's where you're like, nobody ever answers a random phone number. If someone's calling you and it's not in your phone, you're like, "I literally never answer this." You'd have to be pretty insane. It's like you've certified the numbers, and I think it'll end up being the same with content and art—where if it isn't signed somehow cryptographically, you'll probably just assume it's fake because there's no real way to know.

Have you seen much interest on the Bitcoin side in terms of Ordinals and inscriptions and Stamps and Runes? Like how is that looking? Yeah, we've done a couple of projects on Runes with artists, and yeah, it's super interesting. I think there's going to be art on many blockchains. Obviously, Bitcoin and Ethereum being the most secure probably have the highest likelihood of lasting. But yeah, people really like Ordinals. It's funny—one of the paradoxes we ran into early on: we'd talk to investors and they're like, "You need to get rid of the wallet. It's too complicated." But actually, it kind of ends up being this—you gotta know all the right terms. It's almost like you get the secret incantation, you get inducted into the club, and you know how it works. So people really like that.

Ordinals are a little more complex and harder to understand than NFTs on Ethereum. Which is just—that's a funny anecdote—but yeah, they're quite popular. I think they'll be around for a while. And another difference you have there is that they're doing the data carrying on-chain as well versus an external URL, which is another interesting difference.

SPEAKER_05: I'm curious about the decision to—you mentioned starting the gallery and like everyone's talking about RWAs and kind of bringing real-world stuff into the blockchain, but you're kind of doing the opposite. What was the decision to start a physical gallery and why did you decide that was a logical next step for you guys?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean, it's part of how the market works. People like getting together. A lot of the art—you can look at it on your phone, but if you see it on a huge projector, or on a 10-by-10 CRT TV wall, it really looks different. So part of it is community building—it's a space people can show up. And part of it is the art really does look different.

And after all, people are like, "Okay, these are just nonsense JPEGs—EtherRocks 2.0"—so it's kind of like telling the story to everyone else. 'Cause at the end of the day, it's still a demand-constrained market and we're trying to grow the collector base.

SPEAKER_05: Beyond art, what do you see as the next area? Like, you know, what's the next area that's going to need these kind of provenance or these kind of certificates of authenticity? I mean, I can think of a million, but I'm just curious from your point of view, where do you see the next elements getting into it first?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean, in general, it's like luxury assets. With NFTs, it's still more expensive to create than not having one—you just print one out and the ID lives in your database. And I think the customers are going to have to demand it because a lot of the brokers and folks—they do their information advantage, so they don't really want this to exist. But it just makes so much sense. It's hard to imagine that it doesn't happen.

There's people taking wine very seriously, issuing NFTs and building secondary markets. I think part of it's like an asset that's fun to speculate on, but also you do have a high likelihood you might get somebody to send you the NFT—kind of like wine, watches. Handbags, I think, are a big one. Exactly. One of the really popular ones right now is trading cards. Courtyard is still going, right? I think yeah, they're doing great. It's kind of like you have the speculative aspect, but also if you're a serious collector, you can get real things.

Okay, last question for you—unless anyone else has one—but no, no, no. Yeah, yeah. Why are you most excited about in any aspect of the blockchain space right now? Most excited... I mean, it's obviously like we've all been working on this for a super long time, but I do think like if you look at even just BlackRock putting treasuries on-chain with different partners, art moving on-chain—everything literally is going to become that. It's moving on-chain. I think it's like that's actually finally happening. It used to just be a mantra people would say to help themselves feel important, but like, I think we're finally getting there. We're like, "Holy—everything is moving on-chain. That's actually happening." So real-world assets, digital assets. Liquidity is increasing. I think it's generally net positive for everyone. It feels actually like it's finally happening. Yeah, it's taken way longer—10 years—but we're still here and we're still doing it. We can make like a thumbnail—the Ron Paul "that's happening." Exactly.

SPEAKER_05: We need the "mission accomplished" banner, you know? Yeah. Oh my goodness. Yeah, exactly. Well, John, thank you for your time. And as always, we're really glad that you're doing so well. And where can people find you and learn more about all the stuff you do?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, on X at super_rare, John at super_rare. Yeah, we're... Yeah, you should also—there's currently a show at the gallery that's wrapping up, but we have a new ex-copy show December 10th. So if anyone's in town, switch through. You said an annual gallery one more time? I missed it. Oh yeah, Offline by SuperRare. Offline by SuperRare. Well, awesome. Thank you for joining us and take care, everyone. Thank you. Thanks for having me.