SPEAKER_00: Okay, well, we have a special treat for you. Before we get into our regular scheduled content, we are adding a new weekly segment called Strato Spotlight where we highlight the latest and greatest features on Strato. And for this week we have a really special one. Karen, why don't you announce it?

SPEAKER_01: Thanks Victor. So we completed our relaunch onto version 2 a little over a month ago and wanted to monitor the system a little bit to just make sure everything was working well before we turned rewards back on. We have done that as of this Thursday and not been loud about it just yet. We've been testing a little bit internally and it seems all good to go. So Michael will show you a little bit about what I'd call season one of our rewards program. Season zero was very successful, bringing in about 8 million of TVL, and we hope to see similar and greater results with the new rewards program. Over to Michael.

SPEAKER_02: Hi everyone. So I'm introducing the new rewards program. This page will be under the rewards section under the tab. You can find it here. This activities tab shows all the different activities people are doing in order to obtain rewards on the platform. Some are one-time, such as lending from the borrowing pool here or just making a contribution to liquidity to the swapping pools, as this person has done. We're going to start with the CDP mint. Go to advanced. Go to here. We have to first add collateral to the vault. I believe this account has some. USD—going to deposit it. There you go. Deposited. We can borrow. Just going to borrow. Let's say 100 US—100. Oops, sorry, 100 USDS—91 rather. There you go. Now we borrowed 191 USDST. And that would be accruing rewards as a position. Next we're going to do deposit to lending pool. We have about—let's see—496. Let's deposit 100 here. Great. Now we're going to do a swap, which is a one-time position. Let's do 100. Swap assets. And add to liquidity pools. When you add to liquidity pools, it is an ongoing position, so that every time—as long as you leave your funds in the pool—you'll be accruing rewards. Turn deposit here.

SPEAKER_03: Great.

SPEAKER_02: And now we have the regular borrow functionality. Right now I had deposited—I believe—2 ETH earlier, so I'm going to just borrow a little bit here. And this will be accruing rewards ongoing also.

SPEAKER_03: Great.

SPEAKER_02: Borrowed. Now I just want to show you the my rewards section of the page. We have this claimable section that you can claim at any time. There's no minimum. But this also shows your active positions, such as the lending pool position that we took, lending and borrowing, and any kind of liquidity that you contribute to the swap pools. I'm going to claim here. And it's as simple as that. Back over to you guys.

SPEAKER_00: Awesome. Thank you, Michael. And we should highlight for everyone: if you look at the activities, there's a long list of activities that you can do to earn Strato points. And also, if you currently are engaged in one of the activities—for example, if you already have put some into a swapping pool or the lending pool—you have to take it out and put it back in to re-enable rewards for the system. Karen, anything you want to add?

SPEAKER_01: Just that this was on testnet. It is live on mainnet. You'll see very slight differences when you do so.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So thank you everyone. Please start using the reward system. We'd love to give out lots of rewards to you. We, you know, in kind of preparation to launching our full mainnet and making these rewards tradable in the future. So thank you for tuning in. Hope you use our rewards and tune in for more Strato Spotlight segments in the future. Take care. Okay, we are live and we have a very special episode today. We are talking about the future of art and NFTs. And we're joined by special guest and very old friend, John Crane. Welcome, John Crane.

SPEAKER_03: Hey, Victor. Hey, everyone. Hey, guys. Thanks for having me.

SPEAKER_00: John Crane, of course, as everyone knows, is the founder of SuperRare. But do you want to give a quick intro for anyone who is not intimately familiar with all the amazing things you've done over the past couple years?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, sure. So, yeah, I—let's see. My crypto journey started in around 2015, going to the ConsenSys hackathon where I met at least three of the other folks on this call there. Yeah, I was—before that, my background was kind of in art and technology. I worked in advertising. I studied architecture and structural engineering for undergrad. And yeah, I was always really interested in when crypto and blockchain were gonna intersect more with kind of the consumer tech and just things that were a little bit past finance and trading. And so, yeah, when I saw NFTs, it was an instant win for digital art. So I doubled down immediately.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Remember how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally? Obviously we met there, but like, what was that?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. No, so I was kind of hanging out with the New York Bitcoin crowd. Yeah, I had actually met—I think John Lilic—I forgot, but I met him at the New York Bitcoin Center. I don't know if you guys remember that.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I do. Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. So I was hanging around and actually I was like—I was super into Counterparty, so I was very much like, “Ethereum is too complicated. You know, Vitalik's full of shit, it's not going to work.” And then the network launched and I was like, “Okay, I was wrong. This is actually super cool.” I have no problem changing—I was totally wrong. This is amazing. And I was just like Googling “Ethereum blockchain hackathon.” I was trying to find—get deeper involved. I was trying to quit my day job and go full-time crypto. And so then I think I just googled it and it was like, “Oh shit, there's this hackathon in two weeks.” And I applied with Charles and then—yeah—met you guys.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And to be clear to let everyone know that we were blown away by you and your brother Charles's project and we gave you I think your first job, both of you in Web3, right?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Exactly. I think the—like the Monday after—I don't know—I feel like I immediately quit and started working with you guys full time on BlockApps.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well, I—we—I think we tried to give you a job on the spot because you guys—yeah, yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_01: There was like a couple week consulting transition period while, you know—

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I think that's true. Yeah. Maybe it was like we started like hourly—like you know, getting to know each other a little bit—and then full time. Yeah, so.

SPEAKER_04: So with Counterparty you could have been on Christie's tech.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, exactly. If only.

SPEAKER_00: So what inspired SuperRare? I know when you were working with us, you kind of became our head of product and you were working on a bunch of those enterprise implementations. But what triggered you to kind of create SuperRare, which is—for anyone who doesn't know—why, the first NFT platform really out there.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I—well, I mean it was super interesting, right? You know, like we were all kind of on the ground floor at the ConsenSys office—or like, you know, at least me and Karen were hanging out there—and like watching the ICO boom happen was fascinating because I was like—I remember me and Karen talked a bunch about ERC-20 tokens and like I found it was like super interesting that it was this very small bit of standard—a super simple protocol, very simple code. But the adoption created this—there's massive wealth generation. And even if there were also lots of scams, I'd say generally net positive for humans and the economy. It was incredible to see that happen. So then I saw some of the standards conversations around ERC-721 and I saw the CryptoPunks launch. And I was like, “Oh, this is pretty crazy.” If you think about the consumer web, it's all—an image and a title tag and some metadata. It could be that the entire consumer web turns into NFTs and that I don't know exactly what the business model is going to look like, but the total addressable market is probably pretty large. So that got me into NFTs. And then on the flip side of that, I was also kind of in and around the New York art scene—like, you know, going to the art fairs. I had friends who were, you know, looking for gallery representation and kind of part of the—you know—the business of art. And it just seemed obvious. I was like, “Oh, there's now a way to kind of like truly own digital assets and this is obviously going to apply to digital art.” So it's kind of like the marriage of, you know, like my interest in the tech side, but then also my interests and passions around art.

SPEAKER_00: And like, what was it like to be at the forefront of like the NFT explosion? Because you guys—like—I know for a long time you were building and it was like, “Oh, you know, like, how's it going?” And you know that like no one is really paying attention. And all of a sudden, you know, next day everyone's talking.

SPEAKER_03: It was absolutely crazy. It was hard to—it was just like completely surreal the whole time. Like it felt like a dream. Like we—you know—we started in 2018. We were—we tried to raise money. It never really worked. Like by the time we raised, we were already—you know—cash flow positive and like making more than we were paying ourselves.

SPEAKER_00: So that's the best situation to possibly be.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, it was like—it was much easier to raise then than when I was like, “I have this really cool idea.” So yeah, it was like—you know—it was a grind. It was super volatile. Many times I was just like, “What am I doing with my life?” But yeah, then it just—it just really started. Like, I remember the numbers were like doubling every month for a while. And like, I remember it was October 2020. It was our first million-dollar month in volume. And I was just like, “This is wild.” But 12 months ago we were like, “All right, so the volume was like $5,000 and we made a couple hundred bucks.” Okay. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And were you guys the first self-minting NFT platform? I think—like—we were trying to talk about that actually.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, we—yeah—we were the first to come—like, I think there were maybe a couple other minting tools, but like we were the first to combine like the minting and the marketplace. So it was like there weren't like great minting tools then. So we started with the minting tool and then we're like, “All right, I guess people need a place to sell this. So we'll—like—we'll build the marketplace too.” And you know, partially just out of necessity because like the tooling sucked at the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. It's funny because I remember if you recall, what later became the Flow guys doing CryptoKitties—they were based in Vancouver—and I was like talking to them about, you know, running it on our blockchain and doing that kind of stuff too at the time. But—and I mean you've done so much. One of the amazing things—it's the launch of the RARE token. And you guys seem to be one of the first projects that was really committed to sort of figuring out DAO governance in reality. Like how—you know—what—what led to that and how did that go? Like how—you know—what did you figure out there?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I mean, early on I was like—part of what got me excited about Bitcoin and Ethereum is just the idea of these networks where the users of the networks also participate in upside of the network. There's—the fat protocol article—that was super popular 2016. So just thinking about, okay, what does monetization look like and can you build platforms that are—more collaborative than extractive, where it's like if you're Meta, you're just like, “I'm just going to extract as much metadata and sell ads,” which is a great business. But partially for me it was almost like a thought experiment of—is it possible to build a network where you don't have to sell ads? And it could be—maybe it's a marketplace as the business model and then it's like collective ownership via the token. So yeah, I was—you know—drinking a lot of the crypto Kool-Aid at the time. Still am, yeah. To be—yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Did you do it like classic ICO style? Was there like fixed price auction? How—how did it—how did the RARE get in there?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah, we actually just did a huge airdrop. Probably one of our mistakes. Yeah. So like we should have probably—you know—sold a bunch of tokens, but we actually just gave them away. And yeah, I mean—you know—there's plenty of challenges to—you know—DAOs are hard to manage and run, but you know, it's cool to see the current administration kind of like change tech and actually seem like they're interested in like building and pushing forward.

SPEAKER_00: So what do you think the biggest challenge was? And what do you think—you know—the biggest challenge was in running a DAO because I think all of us had that sort of—as an ideal state with the crypto Kool-Aid—you know—running things completely decentralized. What do you think are—you know—the challenges you faced when you did it and that are still out there, do you think?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I mean, I think still one of the bigger challenges is regulatory. Like you have—you're kind of like trying to read the tea leaves and then rather than just making like the bet, you're like, “Okay, well this is the simplest, best decision.” You're like, “Okay, well this is not clear what this means, so maybe we should do this.” And like, how do we—you know—not get in trouble for trying to experiment? And it's obviously—you know—the position is friendlier, but there's still no clear like rules. You know, it's like the obviously like the Gensler era of enforcement—the dark ages, you know.

SPEAKER_04: Gary's going to be turning up for a job somewhere soon, isn't he?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, man.

SPEAKER_01: Do you think of it—the advice. Do you think of it more like it should be like a representative democracy. Like should we be like passing bills in there? I think they're like—they're proposals and there's like delegation usually is the model.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: It could also be like just like you got a couple leaders but the stake could call no confidence vote or something. Or like people like Futarchy too. I haven't tried it yet, but what's that like Metadollar is trying to do that?

SPEAKER_03: Sort of. Yeah, I think—I think it kind of depends on specifically what you're doing. If it's something like—Bitcoin and Ethereum are obviously not DAOs, but just like—you know—where it's like if small changes can have potentially like catastrophic impact, I think that's one thing. If you know, it's—you know—like SuperRare, where it's like there's a low-level protocol and there's application and like—you know—other than like the escrow contracts for auctions and things—like the stakes are like fairly low. I do kind of like the idea of like—you'd sort of like if you can empower like a team or a few individuals to kind of just keep going and then the token holders can say like, tell people to stop versus like having to approve everything. Like that's a very silly, arduous process. And I feel like it should be more like, “Okay, if you're like veering off in the wrong direction, you can—like—there's a way to kind of like raise your voice and influence it.” But like—you know—having a vote on like what color the button should be or something is very absurd.

SPEAKER_00: I'm curious like—you know—given that you're a decentralization advocate, how do you balance like being a curated kind of platform and being open—you know—like, how do you think about those two? Because I think one of the advantages of SuperRare with the curation side in art—you keep the quality very, very high—and yeah, unlike—you know—more marketplace-type NFT platforms, which just frankly puts a ton of crap like out there. So.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: How do you balance those two and kind of keep decentralized, do you think?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, no, it is—I mean it's kind of challenging and it's almost a paradox. I think we've kind of always taken the minimal decentralization. So it's like have it where it's useful. And then one example is we were talking about token models early on. It was like, maybe we'll have token holders vote on artists. And I was just like, “That sounds like the most dramatic, terrible thing I could ever imagine.” It's like people voting—“Your art's terrible.” Like, oh my word.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, in the—the Pump.fun streamer heyday, I think that it could have really worked during that period of time.

SPEAKER_03: Exactly. Yeah. You know, maybe. Yeah, it's like live voting—like, is the art good or bad?

SPEAKER_01: Watch this artist threaten to commit suicide.

SPEAKER_00: I—I did start on a dating project once where—where you basically had to be voted in based on your looks, which just seems horrible. Yeah. Very, very evil.

SPEAKER_04: You know, but there's breaking out 10 pages. Remember those?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes. Or Hot or Not or all those.

SPEAKER_03: Oh yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: It's—yeah, yeah. Just—just brutal. But I—and yeah, especially in places—you know—the art industry can be quite vicious.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. It's challenging and you know—art is subjective. So that—you know—it's like, I feel like—you know—like the on-chain auctions—escrow on chain—that makes a lot of sense. Like on-chain voting for like which artists are good—well, that's kind of like—let people who are like making decisions do their thing and then if it starts to be—if things get out of hand, maybe like the token holders can—like—you know—raise awareness. But—yeah, yeah—and like part of it too—I mean actually early on we were like—we thought we would be more of an open platform and then as things progressed there were more tools. Like—you know—we were just trying—it was like we were building things, trying to add value and there's a ton of open tooling. Like early on we kind of thought we might have like SuperRare as like the ultra-curated view into the market. And then maybe you have like—you know—another kind of like open platform that's anyone could use.

SPEAKER_00: But I'm curious—like what wisdom—like what—like—you know—it's a two-sided market with market artists and art buyers. Like what do you think—like did you have to get the artist first and convince them and how did you do that or did you have to get the art?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, we—you know—you kind of had to get both first. So I mean we started like just—you know—out of like it really started as just me kind of like experimenting and building. And so we were like—you know—started with the minting tools. I was going around like demoing, talking to people and I guess we at first kind of piqued interest of the artists. Like I was—you know—like we were like talking about how it would work. And then—when we first launched though, we kind of had—so there's Jason Bailey who was kind of like an early digital art advocate—you know—big writer. He ran a company—or runs a company—called Club NFT that does like NFT art backups. And he hit us up and was like, “Hey guys. We'd been talking to him and he was like, ‘I know you're getting close with your product. Like, I want to buy this art on Monday. Can we—can I do it on SuperRare?’” And I like looked at Charlie and I was like, “Dude, Jason wants to buy something on mainnet on Monday. Like what can we—36 hours?” That Charlie was like, “Yeah, probably.” And so then we basically stayed up for 36 hours fixing bugs.

SPEAKER_00: And I'm getting—I'm getting flashbacks to when Microsoft said, “We want to launch Blockchain as a Service with you at DEF CON 1.”

SPEAKER_03: And we were like, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: Oh my God.

SPEAKER_03: Like that's like there are many parallels. Nothing like a good deadline to get.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, exactly. Especially with a big major partner that can make or break you, right?

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, just don't have live demos on the end of all of that as well.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, exactly. That's when it gets real risky. So when we did it there was a—there was a funny bug with the like the React stuff. So we were like live—like helping. We were like live streaming—or not live streaming—but like screen sharing—the transaction with this artist, Robbie Barrat and Jason and we're like literally pushing fixes. It was like, “Oh, we didn't know. I didn't expect that to happen. Like, okay, one second. Like, all right, it's deployed. Just reload the page.”

SPEAKER_00: Lots of cash clearing in—in. I—you know—like, I'm curious what you see as the future of just generally like art and NFTs. Like, can I jump in on this?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, please take a take on it. So in DeFi, we're starting to see like as the administration has cleared the way to some extent, it seems like there was a pent-up demand for something like a TradFi-DeFi merger. It's not all the way there yet, but it's getting to just be finance. Like I see the path to that happening. Do you think NFTs really stay sort of like a distinct asset class forever? I know maybe you could talk about your gallery. I know you started to do a lot of physical sales.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Etc. Like does it kind of—what—or you know, do they merge? Do they not? Do they—

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that does like—like Trad art become NFT art and digital art or like—

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I—you know—I think like the NFT stuff—I do think kind of just like eventually fades into the background. Like the real zero to one is—you know—cryptographically secure provenance. So you know, you could use that for physical art, you could use it for digital. I think it was like more of a breakthrough with digital because you can kind of argue the token is the art. You now have this more liquid asset. So for art specifically—yeah, it's kind of just becoming part of the market. And I think you'll see NFTs used with digital art, obviously, but also with physical art. No one's really—if you like—the lack of good data on provenance in the art market and collectibles in general is kind of amazing. Like it's still like, “Oh, there's a sticker on the back that says it was from this gallery. Probably it was like—probably it was like nobody knows.” And so—and also I think—you know—like a lot of people are like really trying to tie the physical asset to the digital asset, which I think is a waste of time personally. It's like if you have the physical asset and you also have custody of the certificate of authenticity—like that's kind of good enough. You don't really need some complicated tech solution there. And it's hard to imagine a world in which like collectors and like customers—like you just want—like I personally have like a higher perceived value for physical art that also has an NFT with it. Yeah. And I think in general that trend continues. I think digital art will kind of just become a bigger part of the contemporary art market and then eventually we'll see NFTs used as certificates of authenticity for all high-value objects.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean one of the big things I didn't realize is that a friend of mine is an artist and she often gets a request for the value that was paid for it because someone wants to insure it. Right. There's this whole downstream kind of economy.

SPEAKER_03: Insurance, appraisal, like lending. Like you can't—you need much better. And so it's like the—I mean Karen, you and I have talked about the lending stuff a little bit. It's like I think the lending market for these types of assets is small just because there's not good information. You could probably really grow that pie quite a bit if you do have easier access to provenance.

SPEAKER_01: Let me add a little on on that front. So I felt having been more of an NFT-style RWA marketplace for a while and gone more DeFi. We—I—I thought that people wanted to tokenize to sell things at first and this is true. But I think it is better that they tokenize to unlock liquidity. In selling could be one way, but people kind of want to hold on to stuff—like I don't want to sell my ETH, I don't want to sell my—you know—et cetera.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: You would know better than us at the very high end of the market. You know, if you get like a wealth manager, they—they might extend some credit against your Picasso.

SPEAKER_03: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Or—but for everybody else and you probably have to have a lot of separate money for that too. You can't really—like I don't know if people fire sell their art, but it tends to sit there and I used to think that was bad, but maybe it should sit there. But the credit markets actually just make it liquid would—you know—as we've—as we've discussed before, which I think would be super cool. Like yeah, I'm surprised or we're getting into that world, but we're not.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I think we're seeing it. I feel like there's the green shoots of like, “Okay, here's what's possible.” It totally makes sense. I think just like NFTs—almost as like—they're a great—you know—like we talk. A lot of people in crypto love talking about identity and stuff. Stuff. And like to me it's like NFTs are like a beautiful, very simple digital identity for whatever—you can pack anything you want in that metadata. It's just like packet full of stuff. It's very simple. They're unique. Point to one—they're pointers to one specific thing.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean I—I love the way you talk about—you know—NFTs as certificates of authenticity because I didn't realize this. We looked into like the physical art market for a while and like every auction at Sotheby's, when they have a big piece—like they have to research it effectively from scratch. Right. Like they have to build that entire chain of provenance with every piece that they do, which is an insane amount of work every single time.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, it's a very high friction. Like the transactions are very, very high friction, which is good—you know—like depending on where your position is in the market. Like obviously Sotheby's loves being the—you know—the keeper of all secrets and information, but I—yeah—I think that's clearly going to be disintermediated with technology.

SPEAKER_01: Any new—maybe you are—you guys—you know—just to declare war on the auction houses. Houses—you know—other high-end physical goods. What?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I mean we're focusing—like our expansion. Like you know, we launched the gallery earlier this year—offline gallery. It's on the Bowery, right next to New Museum. And you know, we're showing physical digital art—you know—installations—you know—projections—all sorts of different things. And yeah, I think like—you know—our view—like if you look at the models—like they're all like the galleries are not doing great. You know, business-wise. The auction houses are hurting. I think everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model and stuff is so illiquid. Right.

SPEAKER_01: I mean to interrupt. Right. It's just—I think the norm is stuff sitting five years, 10 years—you know—and it's feast or famine. Like if we print a bunch of money, probably get a bunch of transactions.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Just wait.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. Like 2021 people were just—you know—you know—buying Picassos on their phones.

SPEAKER_00: And CryptoPunks. Right.

SPEAKER_03: So everything. I remember when EtherRocks were like the price is exploding and I was like, “This is truly amazing.”

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: But yeah, I think like the models have to change. And you know, just as like if you think what the Internet's done as far as like shopping—right—it's like you can price compare easily on your phone in any store. Right. There's no kind of like price arbitrage. You're like—you're gonna look up the price of something. You can scan something, figuring it—like ask ChatGPT—“What is—you know—what is this? How much should it cost?” And so I think like the art world has really—it has been like an insider's game of who knows who and like what's the real price? Like the marketed price versus like what was actually paid. And I think that's gonna—like—it's kind of slowly like unwinding and we'll—we'll end up with a market structure where pricing is just much more transparent. You can see things on chain and I mean I think that's—you know—like, that's kind of like part of the opportunity is as the market becomes more efficient, we'll have the best tools to service the new structure.

SPEAKER_01: So it sounds like even the big guys want more liquidity, but they're not willing to like let go of their proprietary information advantage, I guess.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah, exactly. And I—but it's—and like that's a kind of also the paradox. It's like you'll have more liquidity if it's better access to information. But like—you know—it's the classic.

SPEAKER_01: What's the—the innovator's dilemma.

SPEAKER_03: The innovator's dilemma. Exactly. I was like—yeah—tip my tongue. Yeah, classic innovator's dilemma.

SPEAKER_00: Well I—I think some of the auction houses are even trying to offer loans to try and lock people up even longer. Right. To—to the places.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, they have—I mean I—like they're all Christie's inside of you. Like a lot of the big—or most of the auction houses are private. So I don't know how big their businesses are, but they do have. Yeah, there's like—you know—people will like inherit art and it's like they don't really care necessarily. And their advisor was like “Don't sell that. You should just take out a loan.” And so they do have.

SPEAKER_00: But that seems like a classic conflict of interest to your point. Right? Like—like—“Oh, we'll tell you how much it's worth and we'll loan you based on that.”

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, it's very one-sided and you can't really shop it around. It's like ultra-specialized information.

SPEAKER_00: Jim, did you want to ask a question? You look like you—you came off mute.

**[33:52]