SPEAKER_02: That little love. Fantastic.

SPEAKER_03: All here. Hello. Hello. We are back.

SPEAKER_00: Great. Yeah. Uh, you know, technical difficulties, uh, I suppose it's common. I think we wanted to start at five Oh five. And, uh, so we are doing well on time. Thanks for everyone for jumping over. Um, just a friendly reminder, just throw any questions within the Twitter thread. I'll be keeping an eye on those. Hey, Mike. Thanks, Yum, for posting both two great comments in the thread. And then, yeah, like, share, repost. Got a great space ahead. And then with that, I guess we can get started, and I'll pass it over to Bob to introduce the speakers.

SPEAKER_01: So, hi.

SPEAKER_02: Welcome, everyone. So, yeah, really happy to have Taylor Garrick here as a guest. Back in late 2023, Kieran Victor and Jim did a couple of videos on the early days of Ethereum, which I absolutely loved, being an Ethereum history buff as I am. And I made a whole load of notes on those, sufficient that they invited me on as a guest on the third edition. And I made a bunch of notes on that again. So we were talking through our own experiences from 2014 onwards to around late 2017 then. But yeah, just thought, especially with the 10th anniversary, that it would be great to have an OG on to talk about the early days and you don't get a lot more OG than Taylor. So welcome, Taylor. Hello.

SPEAKER_04: Hello, everybody. And thank you very much for that kind introduction, Bob, and appreciate everybody. I'm honored to join you guys and maybe add a little bit to the story, fill in some gaps in the history that people might be wondering and do whatever I can do to get some chuckles out of the audience.

SPEAKER_02: So, Taylor, do tell us something about yourself in general. Where are you from? What did your early years look like before you got involved in this nonsense?

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, sure. So I'm actually sitting in the town I was born in, in South Florida, where I was raised and raised. I probably spent the first 20 years of my life or so, a few more than that. I knew already way back when that I was super good with computers and kind of entered college university with the intention of like getting a degree in that realm. And that's what I did. I went to junior college first and then I finished my degree up in Orlando. was management of information systems. And the way I describe it is half business, half computers. And that turned out to be a fantastic skill set to kind of bring to the early days of Ethereum. You know, when it's just startup mode, things are just flying left, right, up, down, forward, every single direction. And there's not a lot of people paying attention to kind of how the business is supposed to work and be organized. And I thought that gave me a little bit of a leg up going in, understanding that we're going to have to submit receipts for things and they're going to have to be accounted for. And so I was a little more diligent with my early days activities because of that experience. But yeah, I left there to go to Chicago and got a lot of great experience in the companies and organizations I worked with up until the point where honestly, I got tired of working with proprietary software, you know, from predominantly Microsoft houses. And I sort of moved shifting back towards open source software, kind of thinking back to when I first got started was doing like PHP MySQL. and uh found me at the right place right time to discover and learn about bitcoin and uh really fall into the whole world of open source decentralized cryptocurrency blockchain software so i just feel like i was a opportunity and uh luck meeting you know i was like I had, I was prepared for the right thing. I was in the right time, right place kind of situation and try to stay positioned there. And that way I could bring all my skill sets to a project that I was very passionate about.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, were you, were you like a, you know, a libertarian, a cypher punk, a gold bug, a prepper, any of that kind of flavor?

SPEAKER_04: You know, honestly, I, uh, I kind of had a little bit of a heads up about politics and. Uh, the whole left versus right, right thing and trying to, um, step away from that. But I had not really gotten into the super libertarian stuff. I wasn't really a precious metal guy. Uh, it was really, once I discovered Bitcoin and really understood it and those principles that we all kind of take to heart, once we finally joined the cult, um, that really stumbling upon Bitcoin is when I most embrace those kind of ideals, if you will, and certainly hold a lot of those still close to me today, even though it feels like as a whole industry or whatever, we're kind of out of practice. A lot of people just don't really think about the decentralization side, but that is definitely part of what what drew me in was the idea that wasn't controlled and that we all are contributing and even some more esoteric ideas like living in Hollands, like alternative communities and stuff. I'm fascinated by all that stuff, but I recognize there's some practical limitations with modern society on making that work.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah. So I mean, how long were you a Bitcoiner before you heard about Ethereum?

SPEAKER_04: I discovered Bitcoin, I want to say in 2011. When I was clearing off a laptop, I... I saw I had the Bitcoin software downloaded, but it was still in testnet mode. I never figured out how to get out of testnet mode until when I really discovered the second time in 2012 and going into 2013. Then I continued working through 2013, doing some mining, trying to join various aspects of Bitcoin projects, writing about different alternative projects like Namecoin, Bitmessage and stuff. Um, and then I guess it would have been towards the end of that year was when I met Mihai Lisir in, uh, Milan, Italy, I think that was late 2013. And then Vitalik ended up giving his talk in Miami to announce Ethereum, uh, officially in, uh, 2014. So I guess, uh, maybe it was just over a year that I was like a pretty diehard Bitcoiner. And then, uh, just feeling like there's more to this whole blockchain technology and observing what everybody was trying to do with alternative things. Like I said, Namecoin was one of those like using blockchains for name resolution services. I saw the writing on the wall that there was something else to do with Bitcoin and I just didn't know what it was until I finally read Vitalik's paper three times and you know, it kind of clicked in my head that, ah, here's the way forward.

SPEAKER_02: And you were working for some wallet company or involved with a wallet project when you were in Miami?

SPEAKER_04: Yeah. So I think at the time I wrote in on the Bitcoin dev mailing list about like trying to figure out, can we do a slider, like just normal UI slider that we use all the time for volume and whatever to adjust the fees and stuff for Bitcoin. Um, and that was at the behest of Wendell Davis who ran, uh, software company making high bitcoin wallet it was supposed to be something super secure simple enough for like your parents to use um i think i had like tour network built in by default and he had taken an interest in some of the projects i was working on on top of bitcoin so probably most people don't know but the first project i wrote if you go on github there's a project called pay through p-a-y-t-h-r-u and the idea was can i pay bitcoin to people who haven't necessarily set up a bitcoin address yet so for example tipping on twitter tipping somebody's website things of that nature and so i kind of came up with a little system where it would generate a address to send the funds to If that person didn't have something pre-registered and I had a mechanism in place where if the person then, for example, put their Bitcoin address in their Twitter link, handle, profile, whatever, it could go scan that and it would pull that address out of there and then take the funds from the temporary address and forward them over the more permanent one. So it was kind of like a way to hold the funds. And then if you had an account and you're like, oh, I want to collect my tips, all I got to do is like put my own Bitcoin address on my website or on my Twitter profile. And then you could receive those funds without having to really do very much. I thought it was kind of an ingenious system. Some people didn't like it because of the technicalities of how Bitcoin has addresses and return addresses are not always return addresses. But, uh, I think it was novel and interesting enough that Wendell's saw the value that I could bring and my skillset, uh, to high Bitcoin wallet. And so I started working on that kind of on the, um, I guess it was like a very rudimentary DAP sort of interface. The wallet could, could have like plugin sort of things where you could click on. click on the DAP sort of thing. And because you're loading it in your own wallet, it already knows what your receiving address is. So it made it easy to like go to a website and interact with various services with knowing already some of your crypto information. So I started working on like plugins and things of that nature, making them refined. But once I learned about Ethereum, I found it really, really hard to want to keep working on the Mac only wallet because I just saw the impact of working on something that wasn't just focused on one platform. When it was very instrumental in kind of informing, like encouraging me, I guess is a better word, to go out and travel a little bit more and just be a nomad living out of my backpack. And it was because of that that I ended up going to Milan and meeting Mihai. And Mihai is the one who ended up connecting me to Vitalik and the rest of the team. So Wendell's definitely an instrumental part of my story with Ethereum.

SPEAKER_02: Nice. Yeah, he's a bit of a mystery man, isn't he? last i heard he was in thailand uh i think with a wife i don't know if he was having kids or whatever but i kind of fell off the face of the earth to me i haven't heard from him in many many years no um he was he was at devcon doing a talk about grants actually and i i got my name on the screen i didn't get to go to london but i was i was on the screen as a named uh contributor to f embedded

SPEAKER_04: so uh but yeah i didn't see him around in ethereum land much much beyond that kind of time line there there's a lot of that though a lot of people have uh you know they put in their contribution and they go attend to other aspects of life right life isn't just working about working on startups i mean uh some people want to have families and stuff so yeah There's a lot of people who have done their thing and gone off to greener pastures, whatever that means for them. And no hard feelings to any of those. I mean, I find myself in a similar space where I'm not contributing like I once was and trying to enjoy other facets of life. But I think it's just part of the natural cycle of things.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah, for sure. I mean, like I was saying on that Twitter thread last night, I think a crazy project I could do at some point would be trying to talk to and interview all of these early contributors, you know, 80 or 100 people. Many have forgotten to the mists of time, and many of those have probably never been really asked about their story or their experience.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, and kind of to your point, it would be great to capture that because, especially with 10 years in the past, I know not all these memories are... being perfectly remembered and our brains are kind of faulty and it'd be nice to get some of it down in video or books or whatever just to capture all that for future posterity.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah, for sure. So, I mean, you mentioned Miami that so Bitcoin Miami was late January 2014 at very early February where Vitalik had his sort of announcing Ethereum first presentation at a conference. And then that was where I guess many of you got together to meet each other physically for the first time after a month or two of interactions. How was that?

SPEAKER_04: uh a little nerve-wracking for a shy computer nerd to just meet up with a bunch of randos and uh i was kind of there with wendell and his group and then he had told us about these other people that rented a house and i don't think any of us had sorted rooms uh or figured out where we're staying and it was kind of like just turning into a crash space um so like i didn't know anybody hardly anybody and i was keeping myself a lot uh but it did turn out to be a very important time and place to be in the in the historical story of ethereum there were the vast majority of i'd say like some of the earliest people that had huge influences on ethereum's uh eventual launch a lot of those people got together physically for the first time there. I believe Jeff Wilkie was not able to go, but a lot of the other Europeans came over stateside for that. That was the first time that I met and sat down with Vitalik and we started working on some of the very basic ideas of what the website crowd sale sort of situation would need be. Although that all eventually changed. Um, one thing I like to point out is, uh, that conference, there's some photos, some of which I took in some of which others took, but, uh, So the way the story goes is that room was standing room only. He was in to give the announcement of Ethereum. And then afterwards, the questions kept coming in and kept coming in. And the organizers had to ask him to step outside. And I just remember these photos of him being mobbed by a group of people just wanting to ask him questions. I think Joe Lubin was standing right there. Probably Anthony Di Iorio was probably real close. But that's a very iconic picture in my mind, at least. But anyway, the house that Anthony DiIorio had organized became kind of the hub and the central place where we all gathered around. I think Jonathan, is it Monaghan? Mohand? Mohand, yeah. Um, he was doing some recording stuff there. I remember Charles Hoskinson being there out on the back patio with Joe and, and metallic. Um, I was in my photography era, so I was doing more photo taking. Um, but I didn't know where to sleep and I had brought a hammock down with me. And so I ended up sleeping in the backyard, uh, on a hammock between two trees, looking out over the canal that ran past the house for two nights.

SPEAKER_02: nice yeah saying with that iconic photograph i can't remember the guy's name now but at some point i i met the guy who's who had the speaking slot after vitalik and he said and everyone just started off it's like nobody left in the room for him that's that's got to be a tough act to follow you know yeah so so yeah saying about a great number of photos from January, March through July of 2014. So if you look on my Twitter thread from yesterday, I linked to some of those.

SPEAKER_04: It was a really interesting time. I don't think anybody really knew what was going on. I just felt like documenting as much of I could while I was there was like. The way to do it, because everybody was just living in the moment.

SPEAKER_03: We, um, Bob's audio was glitching for a little bit and now he's muted again. Um, can everyone hear me? Oh, I'm back. Okay.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. What happened that? Um, yeah, I was just saying on that, on that thread, on the, on the photo thread that you got tailored, there was that sort of iconic, everyone crowding around, um, Vitalik, uh, yeah, with Anthony and, uh, and Joe there, and then some photos on your, on the back patio. And then there's that group shot, uh, with everyone there and, uh, and some other bits and pieces. So, so yeah, saying February the 9th was a day that we arrived in in Europe. So that's where the Zoog adventure began, early February.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, it would be interesting to go back and check the actual timeline. I felt like things happened kind of fast. the where we landed in in zug was uh i mean landed in zurich but then we took the train to a small farm town called meyer's couple and uh there was a handful group there that was just staying in an airbnb and i i went along with uh my friend nick Fiero, who kind of came with me, we met up in, I think, Germany somewhere and continued on to Zurich. But we landed there and it was just very chaotic in the sense that nobody had a good sense of what was happening, on what timeline, for what reason. You know, whether it was just sleeping quarters or getting the website online or who was arriving, it was just constant chaos. But if I remember correctly, Charles came in the next day or two pretty soon thereafter. And then the house eventually filled up with Ian Meikle, who did all the artwork. And oh, gosh, I can't remember his buddy.

SPEAKER_02: Richard Wilde.

SPEAKER_04: Richard Wilde, that's right. Richard was actually the first one who was introduced to the project. He brought Ian along, and I think Ian ended up sticking around longer.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Though he wasn't originally called Wilde. Funny little tidbit, that's actually his wife's surname that he took when they got married. I forget her name, though.

SPEAKER_03: Really?

SPEAKER_02: Yep. I guess he liked Wilde. It sounded cool. just assumed it was a pseudonymous uh name that he had picked and changed or something like that uh it could have been um but yeah i believe she had he he had a different name before her name jane jane wilde perhaps it was a pseudonym for them both who knows i mean at that point were other people like working together in other parts of the world have you got people together in uh you know, in London or New York as well at that point?

SPEAKER_04: Unbeknownst to me, I thought Zoom in Switzerland was kind of ground zero. And I think from a legal standpoint, that was probably true. But certainly from a code standpoint, it was not the case. And that, you know, led to some schisms down the road of like, the funny thing is like game of thrones was premiering every sunday uh while like ethereum's developing and uh switzerland was just like turned out to be one of the hubs right there was also berlin and london and amsterdam and toronto arguably and uh so it was like took a little bit of time but It started to become apparent there was definitely a Game of Thrones being played in many different ways. I think we were all very naive in the earliest of days. But as we're trying to get money to get into a permanent house, like what was called the spaceship, I started to feel some of the struggles and pains of like, hey, there's a bunch of other groups and everybody's vying for resources at this time. And then you start to get to deal with some of the other personalities. One of the things I, one of the fun stories I remember is dealing with the Germans and having to accept that, you know, Germans just talk in a certain way and it's not meant as like an offense. It's just how they speak. And you have to kind of just roll with that a little more purse, if you will. But being introduced to everybody around the world and having to work with everybody and um and and get those different personalities to mesh culturally or otherwise that that was a very interesting process we were pretty good i feel like in in the local hub and everybody that you saw on the daily um but it was like interesting once you started to get those other groups worked in and and try to like you know thinking about setting up a server for gavin um we were crammed in a tiny little apartment and he wanted something set up and I didn't do it fast enough. And I definitely heard a little bit from him and I probably could have been faster, but I didn't realize he was kind of just waiting on the other end for me. Um, so yeah, it was, it was just very interesting. I was, I was in my own little bubble with the Switzerland crew, but then, uh, gosh, it was probably only a few weeks before we got moved up and out into a larger house and things became much more complicated, much more quickly.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, just looking down through your photos, it says February the 9th is when you arrived in Europe. And then, yeah, February the 13th is when Stefan arrived at our tiny Airbnb.

SPEAKER_01: And then there was something on the 22nd about moving in somewhere.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, yeah, Richard and Ian arrived On February the 22nd and, uh, Airbnb.

SPEAKER_04: So I guess that was a couple of few weeks of there before Ian and Richard arrived.

SPEAKER_02: Right. Then I'm just looking in March, March photos, Charles bought dinner for 10 people on March the first watching fight club.

SPEAKER_04: You know, like looking back and one thing that kind of stands out to me is it was definitely like a ragtag team of people there and trying to figure out what we were doing. Like this became a constant like a wedge in the group is like what our contribution was, right? from a code perspective and I was responsible for the website stuff. So I think to our credit, getting the team kind of motivated up and going to go from we just met and within a couple of few weeks here, we started spinning prototypes of the website and working together in our different capacities to kind of get this machine in motion and prepared for what would eventually become the crowd sale. It's like kind of No small task, I guess. Just having to learn how to get together and figure out your skills and know how you're going to plug into the rest of the global organization. But yeah, I think from February 12th, so just a few days after I landed, we kind of were up and moving on the website. And that was constantly a moving target too. Once we got additional legal guidance, and getting everybody's photos right and the right order and the right titles underneath. And that became a huge headache. And that wasn't even like the actual functioning app that took in Bitcoin and assigned like your key out. This was just months before in the run up to that. So it's just these personalities jiving, if you will.

SPEAKER_02: I believe that at the Miami time or shortly afterwards, um it was announced that the crowd sale would happen like within a month or two months it was like a really super short timeline that was that was thought at that point um but then yeah i guess all of that got delayed both with technical and more importantly like legal concerns yeah getting getting kind of our a legal footing uh where we as a team felt comfortable proceeding and and it wasn't just like one or two guys right you have to get you know

SPEAKER_04: eight, 10, 12 leaders going in the right same direction and get them to agree when they want vastly different things. But yeah, it was like, I think way back then the whole joke was two weeks, right? Two weeks, two weeks, two weeks. Everything was two weeks away and two weeks eventually turns into months and months because the crowd sale wasn't until what? June, July? July, August?

SPEAKER_01: I think July, August, September.

**[30:39] UNKNOWN:** Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: It was like, and I ran for what, 49 days or something like that. And on the, so I was like in New York for the later part of this time. And it was funny to have the sort of stiff attorneys come by what was then our Times Square office, which is, I was there with Joe and Jonathan Mohan and Stephen Nareoff, now infamous. And