SPEAKER_00: Okay, welcome, everyone. We have a very special and very timely topic today. Privacy on chain and the rise of Zcash. And we sort of have a special guest today. So I'm Victor Wong. I am founder and chief product officer at BlockApps. I'll get to our normal guests, but today we have. Jim, do you want to give us a quick intro?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: I'm also known Victor and Kieren for years. I'm one of the founders of BlockApps and CTO.

SPEAKER_00: And you're here in particularly because I would call you a Zcash expert, having written your own Zcash client.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I think I'm more aspirational at this point in time. I mean, the way I learn about things is I try to write a client for it. So I was doing that, but then we got pulled in different directions. I got to the point where I had sort of replicated the actual client that could connect. It would bring the data in. It would bring the proofs in. But just about when I was getting to the good parts, that's when we moved on to other things.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I'm gonna put the number.

SPEAKER_01: Answer my own question between like, 10 and 100, maybe 10.

SPEAKER_00: I would say there's definitely less than 20 people who have written their own Zcash clients. Probably.

SPEAKER_01: Well, yeah, there's probably some core contributors. I imagine there's more than a handful into Zcash. But, you know, when Jim says non-expert, he, you know, it's like there are. Let's say, yes, I'll expand the range 5 to 100 people who understand Zcash better on the planet. Big, big, big range there. But we're talking about pretty small numbers and absolute terms, so.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yes, exactly. I would say if Jim's not an expert, I don't know what even expert means. Anyways. Kieren, do you want to do a quick intro of yourself before?

SPEAKER_01: Certainly. I'm our CEO. Been on these before. By the way, Vic, you're letting Jim off the hook, calling him a special guest. He has to do this all the time now with our, you know, continued in the public press. So special in the future.

SPEAKER_00: Special today. Today is special, but it's the first of many.

SPEAKER_03: Let's just say that I was looking through the prior videos Jim has never appeared on one of our own spaces. He's only been on early days of.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, there you go.

SPEAKER_02: Oh no, you found out but it.

SPEAKER_00: Won't be special soon. Bob, by the way, since you've spoken up, can you do give a quick intro to yourself?

SPEAKER_03: So hi, I'm Bob. I'm head of ecosystem and yeah, been doing a lot of spaces.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah so I think you know to level set because I think there's a lot of misunderstanding about what privacy is. How would you define blockchain privacy and why do you think it's important?

SPEAKER_03: Who's that a question for?

SPEAKER_00: Could be for anyone. Whoever wants to go. Kieren, you want to kick us off?

SPEAKER_01: So and for the. I assume that the viewer is pretty deep in the space but I'll bring it down to a fairly low technical level. So blockchains are great. They let you move digitally scarce value from party to party. And the way that this is typically done is that you've got a big address which is almost but not quite a public key and you sort of sign a message that says I, Kieren—but it's not Kieren because it's this address—send three Bitcoin to Bob and it doesn't say Bob. It's another address you don't quite know either of those parties are. However you've got the address forever. And often it is the case that you can piece together what happened based on that address. So say you're on a centralized exchange which has KYC'd. It knows how to associate you to maybe withdrawal address. It may not know down the line but if you start to get a bunch of data points you can kind of piece together who sent what to whom and you're actually in an extremely transparent scenario where everyone's financial transactions are visible to everyone and it's not. While it's a cryptographic technology, it's not necessarily a private technology. This has been a problem both in the consumer setting just for. People don't like this. Satoshi makes a comment, I believe in the white paper saying that obviously to prevent the double spend problem which basically is just that to ensure that Bitcoin can't be created or destroyed except by the agreed mechanism. Obviously you need to know the whole history and so he sees the problem as intrinsic. But some technologies come out later that maybe calls that into question that we'll talk about. It's also an enterprise problem so we can talk separately about our experience there. Sort of what the enterprises want is kind of the same as what the public blockchain people want, except with selective visibility. So they want to say you're doing like a. On chain stock trade, which is actually now starting to happen. You sort of want to know the other party has the stock. You don't necessarily want to know who the other party is, but you want to know that they acquired that stock legitimately. And then when you get it, you want to be able to pass it on legitimately in the same way. And then there's sometimes this extra requirement that like, the regulator can see everything, you know, so you, you want sort of like a unlinkability of balance to person or company, but also this mass preservation property that I was talking about can't create or destroy assets. They have to be acquired legitimately and so on. So it's a perennial problem and closer to solved and, you know, but we can go into that shortly.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, Bob, did you want to add anything to that?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, Yes. I mean, going back to those Bitcoin, you know, beginnings in the Bitcoin white paper, you know, it, it just talks about severing identity from transactions, but, but really that's just pseudo-anonymous, you know, not, not anonymous. And I think a lot of people didn't understand that differentiation back in those early days. And it's like, oh, bitcoin's private, untrackable, you know, digital money. But, you know, very rapidly you have blockchain analytics coming in, you know, looking for correlations and patterns. And it's like, yeah, that's. You're not getting a lot of security, you know, even if you're not reusing addresses, just, just sort of normal things that people would do. There's, there's lots of correlations and you know, you can get unmasked that way. But yeah, Satoshi did talk a bit about zero knowledge. I can't remember who raised it. Somebody raised it early and, and he was like, yeah, you know, that would be interesting if we could do that. But, but it was just like a lot of that cryptography, you know, just didn't, hadn't happened, you know, so Zcash started in 2016, and it was only around that kind of time or a little before that you started having, you know, these, these papers on, on SNARK constructions and going through all these different kind of rounds. So, yeah, I mean, what that's meant is Bitcoin and then Ethereum following that same path. You know, they are an immutable public ledger forever. Ethereum. Even worse because it's an account model. So you're, you are reusing the addresses all the time, right? And if your address is unmasked, you are forever doxxed. That's happened to at least one of the Ethereum founders who moved hundreds of millions of dollars and out of a known address of his, which probably not desired.

SPEAKER_00: And you guys have been talking about Satoshi, but Jim, I remember, I think it's like early at like 2014, Vitalik was talking like, he was like, ZK, SNARK will fix all of this at some point in time. Do you remember that?

SPEAKER_02: Well, I mean, like, I think we went through a learning process about privacy. And that's sort of like we're understating this right now. Maybe it's because we put a lot of time and effort into some privacy solutions that technically worked but were a business failure, I think is fair to say. And so the audience can learn from our failed mistakes in the past right now. But we sort of built. So we had heard years ago about zk, but we sort of just, I don't know, at the time, looked into it and said like, oh, this looks like overly complicated. You can get privacy through these other means. And we ended up building a system that, that allowed for sort of like quick spin up of, of private chains that everything was sort of like in a, an encrypted tunnel. And you could, you could have like these chains completely secure. Nobody else would see what was happening there. But, but long story short, you know, slow learning process, we, we found out that customers want everything. And to the point that it made it worthless, we would go into enterprise. We would say, oh, you can set up these private channels with others. And they love that because they could sort of control that and they could control who goes in there. But then once everything was going through these private channels, then they wanted to be able to transfer from private chain to private chain. And that's where everything started to fall apart. Getting things back onto the main chain became sort of this extra complicated system. And at the same time, customers wanted to have full flexibility in having extensions to Solidity where you could just name a chain and send some money from chain A to chain B. And really the only way to make that stuff work is you have to go back to zk. So ZK is overly complicated, but it is necessary. And so we started looking at that again. But I think the safe thing to do is start with a proven technology. And Zcash had been around for years and nobody had stolen money. And this is just sort of like a subset of zk, but it's kind of a cool thing. You can build what they call tumblers of money, throw a bunch of money in and then the money that you put into the tumbler is, you know how much went in but, but the ownership is completely scrambled up and at any time you can go and transfer money from within the tumbler from one user to another, but only the users who did the transferring and got the money know what was there