SPEAKER_04: All righty, well, thanks everyone for coming back. We've done a couple of videos, so we've done two on the early days of Ethereum, and I actually did another video on identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. In the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwill. So Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in depth in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. Wrote a long blog post that you should check out, and we'll link in the notes.

SPEAKER_00: We asked him to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro, and we can just kind of get into it. So, yeah, hi. You know, thanks so much for the invite. You know, like I said to you guys, I love those first two videos. I love this history, and it was great to both hear that and have a slightly different perspective as well. Our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So there are a few things that came up which I wasn't myself aware of. Just for everyone's background about me and who I am: I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really kind of jumped in. And that happened because I was working in Toronto. I had a six-month contract and was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainnet launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on—meetups, Anthony Di Iorio's Bitcoin Decentral co-working space, and everything. So I got really very addicted through that year, and it was like, right, I can't not get involved. It's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever, and you've met Tim Berners-Lee, and he's about to go live on the web—it's like, how can you not want to get involved? So I just started sort of volunteering and helping. My background prior to that was in the games industry, so like 15 years of C++. So I was like, well, I can do something with C++ Ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself was, can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? Could you get a smartwatch and go around and like, bing, there's some money? That'd be really cool. So I just started doing stuff on there. That was about the time that Gav was part in company with the foundation as well. So there was kind of a dearth of people on that team. So during that period, I ended up being like the only person in the world who was actually helping—no companies, nobody was helping. And then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I've been involved with Ethereum, Enterprise Ethereum, Hyperledger, then more recently, Ethereum Classic. It's nearly a decade now.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, Bob, I—I well, and to be open to everyone like world friends, um, and we're happy to have you as our first guest boost on this thing. But also, you are like, you know, the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum microsystem. You're friends with everyone. You've been everywhere, so it's great to have your perspective on things. Thank you. And, as Karen has mentioned, for anyone who hasn't seen Bob's blog post, it's notionally a blog post—almost a full novel, probably a novella size. It has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about. You dug up so much content. Were those your personal pictures? And it's just stuff—yeah, yeah, just stuff. I had—I mean, another thing here is—

SPEAKER_00: There's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well. There's one called "Ethereum Foundation People" and one called "Ethereum Foundation Timeline." So I made those in late 2017, early 2018, because there was no canonical history of any of this. It's like, how did Ethereum start? It's in people's heads—it's all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around. But you know, it's like, what's true, what isn't? Because I think especially on that foundation side, it was such a mess—just all different people weren't getting on, blowing up, kind of like Parity versus the Foundation and Charles, you know, and like, God, what—you know, so some people had almost taken this position of like, we don't talk about that, right? Because anything I say is going to offend somebody else, so just la la la, it doesn't matter. But yeah, so I started gathering that list of, well, who were the people that were around in the pre-foundation days and then in that? So, yeah, I've got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. So that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum pre-foundation or who worked for the foundation in those early years. And one of the things that's really great there is DevCon0, October 2014—that was the very first DevCon, but it was a closed event, not a public event. It was foundation people at that time, but there were also some other key community sorts of people there as well. And they did this one thing at the start that was introductions. So there's this video that's about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody like, "Hi, I'm here doing proof of stake research," just seeing these—you know, so young, so many people that you know, like really early 20s, turning up, and it's like, that's so-and-so, right? And some of these people as well—they're not involved anymore. They're sort of like footnotes in history, but you have that record. So, yeah, that list of people—I got all of that together. And the reason that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, "Hey, I hear Ming's been sacked at the foundation. Do you know anything about this?" Right. And I said, well, no, I don't, but it wouldn't surprise me. But, you know, basically, it would be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you, but like, nobody else could tell you anyway. And you know, it sort of came out—well, yeah, she's not been sacked, but she's agreed to leave. And then it's like, well, what's next? So I contacted Vitalik and said, "Hey, is there anything I can do to help? What can I do?" And he said, "Well, the one thing you can do is try and talk to people and work out what would good look like—what do people think a good Ethereum Foundation would look like?" So that started my sort of adventure really—like, right, I'm going to go and talk to all the founders, all the other people, and try and work out what would good look like. And then that just turned into really a thought experiment on my side—like, okay, so Ming's management was terrible. So how did she get hired? What was going on two and a half years back that looked like a good option? How did it work before? How did the foundation come about? What were the group of leaders, and what were all the dynamics between all of these people? Yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there. And that was the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books—kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I've found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time. Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Well, and also, to your point, I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias—you know, like everything works smooth, but innovation is messy. It's messy, and it's like, you know, there are a million and one different paths that things could have went to. And we just want to kind of acknowledge all that—like, you know, given where the ecosystem is today. And even though it's amazing to me that so many people know about it now, we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain, and no one—you know, everyone just glazed over. So it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point.

SPEAKER_00: Went a little bit farther—we'll just go with it. One of the things that I know that Vitalik said again—it was maybe in Laura Shin's book—was like, the founding of Ethereum was very atypical because it was essentially like, "Here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested." And it's basically like, first people that turn up—right, you're the founders. A number of them hadn't even met each other before, not really a lot of knowledge. And so, yeah, there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn't work at all. It's just like founding a company, and I'm sure you guys have this experience yourself—you want to start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know you're going through the fire together. So you better have some stickability with you and common alignment or at least knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right, and you know that you can work it out. Yeah. And what seemed to happen on Ethereum was absolutely the polar opposite of that—it's just a random bunch of people who were there, didn't really know each other.

SPEAKER_04: Make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing, right? Yeah, and so that didn't work so great. And I think also, let me actually—I wanted to ask about that. I'm also just looking at the list of the Ethereum Foundation people, which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was. You know, we talk about this because we're a management team, and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefit to this level of—you could call it disorganization or just, you know, I kind of think if there were a benefit, and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it embodied the ethos, and it let people—like Vitalik put the idea out there, and then people fought for its destiny. Like Ethereum existed, and then they wanted to be part of taking it to—and he saw the clients and all that too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead.

SPEAKER_02: I was going to say it kind of worked like a blockchain works, in fact—lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things, and then they fight it out. But what's that law—that organization technology reflects the organization? Yeah, something like that. Like, yes. Sorry. Yeah, I mean, I guess in general, yes—you know, having that frothing emergent—

SPEAKER_00: —like stuff is good, I think. Where it was really screwed though was to do with money and the ICO funding. Right, it's basically like, okay, here we're doing the thing, and here the money is all actually in this organizational group, and the people in that group are being funded—they're in this privileged position. It's something which Brian Behlendorf said to me in later years: it's sort of like the original sin of Ethereum. If you want to have that kind of collaboration—so you know, whatever stuff like the EA and Hyperledger or even just the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum—you don't want to pay one team and not the others because that just screws that battlefield. So you have this situation, for example, where you've got the C++ client and you've got Gav. You did have a Python client as well, so you have that good triangulation. But it was essentially like the funded ones were C++ and Go. And then they have the money crisis of, like, oh my God, is this thing even gonna happen? Right, we got cut scope—C++ is gone, Gav ends up going out of the way, and then you have Parity having one of the major clients but without funding. So it's like, oh, Geth—that's the favored child. Right, it's not like the official client, but it is the official client. So all that sort of separation of implementation versus specification and that free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth. Gav and Geth were in the foundation, and they've got—you know, the talent's kind of blessing and everything. So I think that's where things were great. Because you did have the diversity, but it wasn't fair diversity. And I think if you look at what's happening now on the consensus clients—for, I was gonna say Ethereum 2.0, it's not called Ethereum 2.0 anymore—but you know, the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation. The foundation doesn't have client teams. They do funding, like they got the grants, and I think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients. So that's kind of centralization in a way, but it is an even playing field in terms of the development, right? Because you've got an evenness of funding, and that wasn't the case originally for Ethereum. And I think that made a lot of bitterness as well because it's like, well, why have you guys got the money? Like, we're making another one as well. Or other parts of the ecosystem—there wasn't a grants program for a number of years. Between about 2015 and 2018, there wasn't even a grants program.

SPEAKER_04: You've got the foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars, and teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything. So, yeah, I think the diversity is good, but the money was bad. Interesting. Yeah, I think—alright, okay—that's a good strong point. So if you compare to like Bitcoin, which I know less about the history of the development of, but it was kind of similar—there was less of a there was no pre-mine and no token pre-sale. And so the people who were in it were in it for general interest, and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I would argue, you know, in some ways, Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, you know, let's say 2015. Some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes, and that's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it's, I think, been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

SPEAKER_00: And I mean, another major difference there talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision, right, on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients. And there were multiple clients from day one. I see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day—I was finding the first commits for PyEthereum, PyEthApp, or PyEthereum as it was, C++ Ethereum, and Go Ethereum. And they were all—I think they were all November or December. I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three. Yeah. And then EthereumJ looked like it started in about April, I think. But yeah, Jim, Karen, you guys started EthereumJ in 2014. Yeah, we were much later. We were—when did we get deployed? Q2 2014. Yeah, that sounds about right.

SPEAKER_04: And I had worked on Ethereum just in the summer—starting maybe June 2014. I got to know the project pretty well. And then I had gone back to Berkeley—I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that. And then we started work more or less right away—more Jim than me. But, yeah, so there was a big time delay on our side. And yeah, I think—okay, yeah, Bob, it's an interesting point, right? I think probably they could have—there was some real mismanagement at different times, both with running out of funds, not doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people. And it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously, we're talking about a smashing success here, but it's sort of the idea and the community was so powerful that it definitely succeeded in spite of aspects. I think there was value still in this—like, throw it out there, get people to fight over it.

SPEAKER_00: But it probably overcorrected, and lots of these people also just went and started their own thing. I mean, the other thing is right at the start there—it's like, well, the people that are doing it, that was the whole world, right? That was everything. I mean, all of that early work on the clients actually was before the foundation even existed. That was actually unfunded. Yeah, because I'm looking at the dates—the white paper came out in November 2013. PyEthereum was started on November 19th, 2013. Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. C++ Ethereum started four days later, December 23rd. Obviously some over Christmas hacking on these things going on. And then Go Ethereum was December 26th—just three further days. The foundation got formed, I think, in April or May 2014, but the crowdsale didn't conclude until September 2014. So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So I think that unfairness kind of came in a little bit later. I think for that phase, it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry—nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback, right? When the crowdsale had gone through, you had money for early contributors. I think that was nearly 10% for like 100, 120 people. Some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual staff onto those teams. And that, I think, is when it became kind of uneven because you already had EthereumJ for a number of months there, and that never got funded. And then you guys starting whenever you were starting—so yeah, it kind of became uneven I think at that point. And the probably the worst of it of all was for Parity—you know, when that team spun out, and you basically did have a major, rapidly load-bearing client, and it was just unfunded, especially with Gav, who was—

SPEAKER_04: —have been the CTO and wrote the other paper and had the first working client and all of the value he delivered. And then it's like, right, sorry, you're out, and you're not getting any money. So my memory around the C++ client was that there were funds to do a security audit for two clients, but one at a time. And it was tight, right? And so they did Go Ethereum first. And I think they did actually do the security audit on C++ Ethereum, but I'm not quite sure—I'm not sure they did. Maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money ran out before it happened. I mean, my understanding in terms of uptake as well is C++ Ethereum—

SPEAKER_00: —Go Ethereum just like caught up and overtook it really fast. So when they were making those decisions on cutting funding—which would have been mid-2015—it's like, hey, Gav, you're the CTO, but it's your codebase that's got a copy. And then that's what happened.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, I was building the various clients quite a bit because I was trying to integrate with them at the time. And my memory was that the C++ client had all the newest stuff in it first. So if I wanted to see something first, I would go there, but the Go client was more stable. Like, because I think they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client, it was often an unstable situation. And so I would typically go to C++ first to see the new stuff, but if it wasn't building that day, I would run over to Go and try it out. Yeah, I mean, and that would make complete sense because the other thing to know with the C++ client is that that was where the test suites were done.

SPEAKER_00: You know, like all the tests were generated out of that codebase. So as you say, all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first, then you do the test generation through that, and then those were the tests for other clients. So even when C++ Ethereum as a client like died—it didn't die within that testing suite for years. It's like, right, even though nobody's actually running this or using it on mainnet or anything, we've got to keep maintaining that one because that's where the tests are coming from. So yeah, that front line was really like leading across Solidity, the tests, and C++ Ethereum. You know, all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the GUI apps like Mix and AlethZero. Well, if one out of five—it took 24 hours to build the bloody thing. But that will be because it was all around Gav, right? You know, Gav was leading all of that—he was building that client, he was writing the yellow paper, he was working there with Christian and Christoph on that specification and testing stuff like that. All of that was there. And then on Geth's side, just doing Geth—it wasn't a broader thing. And that Geth team were working closer with Mist, with Alex Van de Sande on Mist. Like for a good while, I don't think C++ Ethereum even worked with Mist. You know, it's like all these groups not really talking to each other. But yeah, that would make sense—like a lot of it was Gav-led.

SPEAKER_02: And wait—Solidity compiler, that was part of that C++ group too? Yeah. That makes sense because it's written in C++. Yeah, it was all under Web3 umbrella. Okay.

SPEAKER_00: I remember Web3 Umbrella. Yes, so Web3 Umbrella was a Git repo with sub repos for—you know, it was called F, it was just called F, the executable. So you had F, and again—but yeah, you had F, you had SolC. You had Mix, which was the original IDE. C++ client. You had AlethZero, which was the GUI miner. Yeah, so it's like, right, here's a good press—the mine button. And then you had AlethOne, which was sort of—I guess it was like, kind of like a GUI client runner thing. I can't remember the exact scope, but it was sort of like, right, you're running a node, but you kind of got a GUI on it. And I can't remember what it had, but you know, whatever logs going by, and I guess you could fiddle with settings or whatever. But yeah, all of that was in Web3 Umbrella. That's a lot. And all of the dependencies—they were all really co-dependent. I mean, when I started, one of the first things I did was like, what are the dependencies on all of these things—what is all of this stuff? Because you have libraries with it as well—it's like libethereum, libweb3core, web3base. DevP2P, libp2p. There was documentation all over the place. I mean, I think what had happened there that Gav was sort of trying to do—but it never came to fruition, and then he left—was it's like, right, let's try and make this modular. We're going to try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this, that, and the other. But it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these, so you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway—you couldn't mix and match because there was no versioning, there was no interop discipline on any of it. You had to use all the latest ones together, but then it was all split into these separate repos. So it's like, right, you're making a change on one of them, and then whatever—updating the submodules, and like, that wasn't atomic. It was just a big old mess. So yeah, one of the first things I did was work out info, infer a dependency diagram, map a path to pulling it all back into a monolithic workspace, doing automated builds that we somehow didn't have, and specifically decoupling. So for Solidity, for example, because it was tied in with this build—it was like compiling Chromium from source twice, compiling Qt—all of this stuff. Just to get—and there weren't binaries available for SolC either—you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to compile a smart contract to do anything. You have to do all of that. So I remember, after all that decomposition, I got it so you could just do SolC, and that was a quick build. And then I did Homebrew—so you could do brew install solidity, and it did it in like five seconds. And everyone's like, oh my God, it's amazing. But yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

SPEAKER_02: I do remember waiting—you know, many times trying to build things, coming back, looking at it, saying like, this can't be—my machine's got to be broken because it can't be this long. It can't be like eight hours—like, nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do. But you're right—you know, talking about that creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything.

SPEAKER_00: One of my first observations on joining the foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism because that's seen as—you know, in an organized way, well, you're one of the baddies—you're the status quo, you're trying to subvert it and take it over. Things as simple as—have we got technical leads that actually lead? No. Have we got any project management? Have we got any IT? Have we got anything? And it's like, no—it's just like a jumble of people doing stuff. And it's like, how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment? But that was kind of the vibe as well—that was seen as a good thing because it's a defensive cultural thing—you know, we don't—

SPEAKER_04: —we don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing. I just have a comment. It's interesting—and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos—one of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from the United States. It's Canada, it's different parts of Europe. And one of those confusing things—to your point about who got paid for the clients on the foundation—I think like I remember there being a deal struck with Zug, the Canton, around it. They were like, there's tax stuff and all that sort of thing, but they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally—people would either move there or they'd hire ETH Zurich grads or whatever. I don't know the details specifically, but I think that didn't quite end up happening that way, in sort of as a surprise. And I saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which Amir and Charles were—you know, sent on their way. The client team set up in their own countries. And that was a bit of a script flip. Gav wanted to be in Berlin because I guess the devs were good and inexpensive—excuse me. Yeah, I think it's just—you know, running my own business, you would never make such a decision in such a flip manner—like, overnight, we're like, oh, we're doing a different country. But that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent—major things changing as part of how the foundation plus sort of operated that I saw. And again, it didn't seem to hurt quite as much as you might expect. But yeah, I think you were lucky in how people work—how excited people were about the project—that survived all of this. And again, from our side—you know, we're sitting in the Bay Area at that time, and we're like, well, why do they keep doing all of these things? They're trying to build a thousand things, and it's hard to build one thing. Yeah, I mean, so there were separate legal entities for those as well—you know, you have FDev AG—

SPEAKER_00: —in Berlin, and then you know, there was an Amsterdam thing for the Geth team. You had the London stuff as well, which was mainly communications sort of stuff—with Stefan and George Hallam, Ian Meikle, and one other person who I forget. But you sort of talk about these people working for the Ethereum Foundation, but it was always woolier than that. So yeah, you did have the Stiftung in Zug, but most people—even if they're working full-time—they weren't actually working for that. So when I had my contract, it was with the for-profit FDev in Berlin—that was who I was actually working for. And then they were funded by the foundation. And FDev in general—that was another big split that there was—you got the foundation, but then you had FDev that was like the kind of umbrella group for that, that Gav was leading essentially. So I think the Amsterdam thing rolled into Berlin. I think that was all sort of FDev side. And that in itself was a huge item of conflict, I know. Again, in Laura's book, I think Joe was talking about that—was that Gav kind of wanted a big chunk of money. It's like, right, the funds are there from the crowdsale now, so give them all to us. And it's like, I don't know that we want to give you all the funds. But that was typical of that period—just a mess of complexity and interpersonal things and organizational complexity, with that Swiss people thing. So my understanding on that was that was like a main motivation for getting that spaceship building—renting that spaceship building. The intention was that there were going to be a load of people there. Maybe testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal there—like, right, we're going to get a load of Swiss people to test things. And there was also Mihai with his Holon ideas—Holon of these co-working spacey things around the world.

SPEAKER_02: And when—and also to make it a little bit more earlier—like, you know, same time, very shortly, ConsenSys emerged on that too. And they were doing a bunch of work—you know, we were working—we were technically working under ConsenSys for the first little parts of it too. And all of that was like in the mix—everywhere. I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert. And in our last one, we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from Slockit and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through that and how ETC emerged out of that. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on how those pieces all came together. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Um, one of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of shrinking of the foundation was that on that C++ team that got most of the cuts—a good chunk of those people went straight to Parity and just carried on with that new client. But Christoph Jentzsch, who had the testing effort—we were just talking about those same tests—he and Stephan Tual, who had been communications leader, that sort of thing, community stuff, and Lefteris Karapetsas, who'd also been on C++ team—those three went off and formed a company called Slockit. So Slockit being smart locks—just the idea that you, whatever, if you're doing an Airbnb or something, that you could have a smart lock, and that you could go and do your contract with someone for the rental, and then that could be enabling something on the lock that's checking an Oracle or an on-chain thing and so on. And so that was their product area. At DevCon1, they did an onstage demo that was like a pot—it was like a kettle, like a pot. Yeah, I remember that—doing a transaction that turned it on to make a cup of tea. That was the onstage demo. But what seemed to happen there was they didn't want to do an ICO. They wanted it to be fairer, I guess, because around that era—more later—you saw lots of cash-grab ICOs, and it's like, right, here's all the money up front. You know, we're not going to live it. What are you going to do? Right. So they didn't want to do that because they were very genuine people who came out of the foundation and were kind of ideologically driven. So Vitalik had written stuff about DAOs—I think they were mentioned in the white paper even. And it's like, well, maybe we can make a DAO. And I think that was just Slockit DAO really originally. And it was like, right, we're gonna have a DAO. The money's gonna go into there, but then it's only gonna get released to us as we deliver milestones. So it's kind of like this separation—right, the DAO is where the money is, and that's controlled by the token holders. Slockit as a company is a service provider into that, but we're a sackable service provider, and we're only going to get paid as we go through the milestones. So it's like, oh, that's really interesting. Yeah. And to my understanding, that's what was presented at DevCon1. Okay, I remember was like, hey, with Slockit, this is what we're doing, and we're going to do a DAO with it. And it's like, oh, cool. But then they kept working on that DAO stuff after DevCon1, and it just seemed to warp into—well, we've made a DAO framework. It's a DAO library because we want other people to be able to do this as well. But then that sort of turned into—well, actually, how about it isn't just us? How about it could be anything? Anyone could have a service provider. You could propose anything into it. And then it became the DAO. Okay. And it wasn't capped—there was no cap on the contributions into it. There was really nothing else that you could do on Ethereum at that point. It was kind of like the first application, really. Well, I mean, you did have a few—you had Digix, this gold thing. You did have Dai, I think, was sort of coming to life just about at that point. But the DAO was kind of like the first big thing. Right. And it just sort of snowballed and snowballed because it was also touted as zero risk—because you could exit with your funds, right? If you didn't like the result of what was happening, you could just exit and have your ETH back. So it's kind of like, this is risk-free, right? It's like a sovereign bond or whatever—there's no downside here. This is risk-free. So tons of people are like, well, what else am I going to do? I'm just sitting here on my ether. I can't do anything—well, pile on in. And the Ethereum crowdsale raised what is 16 million, I think, in Bitcoin, which was—I think it was number five crowdsale of all time, you know, comparing to Kickstarter projects. So it's like, maybe the DAO will do two or three million, maybe five. And it just went until it was absolutely gigantic. And I remember at the time thinking, you know, this is—I don't like