SPEAKER_04: All right, well thanks everyone for coming back. We've done a couple of videos so far, so we've done two on the early days of Ethereum, and I actually did another video on identity following that which you can check out on my channel. In the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwill. So Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in depth in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. He wrote a long blog post that you should check out and we'll link in the notes.

SPEAKER_00: We asked him to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro and we can just kind of get into it. So, yeah, hi. You know, thanks so much for the invite. You know, like I said to you guys, you know, I love those first two videos. You know, I love this history and it was great to, you know, both hear that and have, you know, a slightly different perspective as well. You know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So, you know, there are a few things that came up, which I, you know, I wasn't myself aware of. I mean, just for everyone's background about me and who I am. So I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really like kind of jumped in. And that happened because I was, I was working in Toronto. I had a six month contract and was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainnet launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but, you know, just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on and meetups and Anthony Di Iorio's Bitcoin Decentral co-working space and everything. So I got really very addicted through that year and it was like, right, I can't not get involved, right? It's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever and you've met Tim Berners-Lee and he's about to go live on the web and it's like, how can you not want to get involved?

So I just started sort of volunteering and helping. My background prior to that was in the games industry, so like 15 years of C++, 15 years at C++. So I was like, well, you know, I can do something with cpp-ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself is, you know, can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? You know, could you get a smartwatch and go around and like, bing, there's some money, you know, that'd be really cool. So, uh, so yeah, I just started doing stuff on there. That was about the time that, that Gav was, um, partnering with, uh, with the foundation as well. So there was kind of a dearth of people on that team. Um, so, you know, like that period I ended up being like, I think the only person in the world who was actually helping on that, like, you know, no companies, no, nobody was helping. And then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I've been involved on Ethereum, Enterprise Ethereum, Hyperledger, then more recently, Ethereum Classic. It's nearly a decade now.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, Bob, I, well and to be open to everyone, like world friends, um, and we're happy to have you as our first guest boost on this thing, but also you are like, uh, you know, the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum ecosystem, you, you're friends with everyone, you know, you go, you've been in everywhere, so it's great to have your perspective on things. Thank you. I, and friend as Kieren has mentioned, for anyone who hasn't seen Bob's blog post, it's uh notionally a blog post, almost a full novel, probably a novella size, it has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about. Um, you dug up so much content out of there. Were those your personal pictures and it's just stuff?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, just stuff. I, I, I mean another thing here is there's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was, there's one called Ethereum Foundation People and one called Ethereum Foundation Timeline. So I made those in late 2017, early 201