SPEAKER_00: So hello and welcome to Early Days of Ethereum. I am delighted today to be joined by Fabian Vogelsteller. Is that the correct pronunciation? Vogelsteller. More like an F. The V is more like an F. Yes, right. Very Germanic pronunciation that's not going to come out of my mouth. So, you know, great to see you. We saw each other at DeadConnect. In November, I think, for the first time for quite a while. And had a good catch up there. But hello. Hey. Yeah. What were you doing prior to wandering into blockchain world?

SPEAKER_02: So, okay, let's start from the beginning. Okay. So what I was doing before blockchain, I was actually a web developer. So I started out as, I mean, I've built websites since I was 14. My Findura, the name that I have on Twitter, is actually the name of the content management system that I built, I think, in 2005. And it just happened to be, you know, turning into my second identity. So I have two identities in the internet, Frozman and Findura. It's all just connected to two things. In GitHub, I'm Frozman. And that's also my GitHub history with Ethereum and so on. And Findura is then my online one. And, yeah, I mean, I basically, you know, was always interested in the cutting the edge of, like, the cool internet stuff in the 90s. You know, building in the first 2000s my first websites or 1990, whatever, eight, nine. And, you know, following the whole evolution of the internet with HTML, CSS, HTML1 and 2 and CSS1 and 2 and JavaScript and coming in and blah, blah, blah. So I mainly did web development. But I studied media design. So I didn't study anything with coding. All the coding is autodidactically learned. So I haven't, yeah, there's nothing that came from, honestly, even when I joined Ethereum, I had no fucking clue about bytes and how to manipulate bytes and stuff. Still don't have, actually. So I still don't know.

SPEAKER_00: You didn't have your computer science background. I don't have any computer science background.

SPEAKER_02: I'm not sure what I'm, I don't know what I'm doing on the computer. I just know how to interact with, like, high-level languages. And now I only know how to speak to AI and to my team. Well, that's all you need. Things changed. And you wrote a book? I wrote a book about Meteor.js. So I, yeah, I got really, obviously, into web development. I did a lot of websites and built a lot of things. I built my own content management system in PHP. And I built a flat file-based content management system. So that means that this doesn't need a database. The whole idea was, okay, I just want to have one of these FTP, PHP-ready servers. And if I want to move my, it was literally all about the independence of hosting providers, right? If I want to move from this hosting provider to the other, I mean, back in the day, migrating databases was a nightmare and probably still is a nightmare. It was, oh, if I build a flat file-based thing, you just copy the whole folder structure over to the other server and it works. And it did. So that was what DefineDura.org CMS does and did. I mean, obviously, who uses a PHP today? But Facebook does. No, but I mean, yeah, now I have a bunch of haters in the PHP community. But, yeah, I mean, so, yeah, I built that thing and that was really, like, helping me, like, to kind of, like, do a full project front to end. And then I got more into JavaScript and I got really excited by MeteorJazz, which was one of the first reactive JavaScript frameworks that was before Angular, before React. And it was the first time where you just could write, like, this JavaScript code and this HTML stuff. And when you update stuff in the JavaScript or in your local state, like the HTML got re-rendered natively, super magic. So I got really into this and I wrote a book about it. I have it here. If you ever want to, I would never, I would never read a tutorial book, to be honest. But I wrote one.

SPEAKER_00: I don't think people even read books anymore.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I mean, honestly, I would never even, it was so much fucking work to do this. And the reason why I did this is because they reached out to me and I thought, like, yeah, I could do that. And then, you know, Marjorie, my ex-wife, back in the day, encouraged me and I thought, like, okay, why not? And on the end, it was a lot of work. I mean, literally, like, four months of waking up and I had a kid, two-year-old, two-year-old kid at a time. And I had to wake up very early or maybe a year old, I don't remember. And I had to wake up very early at five to, you know, write one or two, three pages or five pages, whatever, and then go to work. It was intense. You get an hourly rate of, like, 10 cents. So, I made totally no money. I literally probably made, like, exactly, like, 10 cents per hour or something like this. Right. But it's reputation. And in a way, I think that's also what got me into Ethereum. Right. Because what is this? Writing single-page apps with Meteor. And what is a D-app? It's a single-page app. It's the whole point. It's an app that literally runs in your browser, doesn't require a back-end. And I built, actually, a tool that allowed you to strip out the server part of the Meteor app so you can bundle it as a local app. It's actually quite – it was quite a popular repository called Meteor Build Client. And, yeah, that's what I used for D-apps in the early days in Ethereum, too.

SPEAKER_00: So, is Meteor still an active project? Is anyone using Meteor still?

**[06:52] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: No, I totally think so. I think so.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, I don't know how frequent they are. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: I haven't checked it out in a long time. No. But, I mean, it's quite a revolution at the time, the single-page app.

SPEAKER_02: It was the first, you know. It was literally, like – it was one of the first – it was the first framework that I know that really was a proper framework. And it's just solved the whole thing from account creation to reactive DOM updates to server client synchronization. It was magic. Yeah. It blew a lot of people away. And then all the others, React and so on, were kind of more like answers to this. And then React brought it back to the weird way of mixing code and UI in the same files, which I already found very bad in PHP times.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Yeah. And then I guess you maybe sort of found your way into Bitcoin world in some form?

SPEAKER_02: So, yeah, 2013, I heard about Canadian wants to sell a house in Bitcoin. And I thought, okay, wow. What's that? Like somebody's selling a house in a currency I've never heard of. And that really led me very quickly down the rabbit hole of – this was 2013 March. There was literally when Bitcoin hit $200 in that very same month. And number one, I saw, okay, there's money to be made here. And I was a student with no money. So, like, you know, trying – like, you have your hope. Okay, maybe I can make a little bit of money on the side this way. But I really quickly understood the fundamental power of this technology. And it took me, like, about a year to really understand how it works fully. I mean, I literally had this epiphany every month that I thought, like, now I know how it works. It took me a year to really construe my brain, you know, knowing servers and frameworks, you know, and how this basic stuff works. And then the crypto, blockchains that were just so out there in a way how this stuff works. But, yeah, so I was in the space. And then in 2000, obviously, you know, right after I joined the Bitcoin community, then there was the first altcoin, Litecoin. And then in 2013, there was a lot of, like, projects that were created trying to imitate Bitcoin or do an improvement or do alternate versions. I also got really into Mastercoin, the idea of just writing onto the Bitcoin blockchain rather than creating a separate blockchain. Right.

SPEAKER_00: And you were in Berlin, right? Were you going to meetups or, like, did you find fellows? It was online.

SPEAKER_02: There were no meetups at the time, really, like, not in my region. So what actually happened in 2000, and so they were done later, 2014, there were then some meetups. And so I heard about Ethereum. I really knew that I just felt immediately that this is a really powerful approach, but it also sounded so unrealistic. So when I heard, like, this, I mean, I looked at the white paper. I never really read the Ethereum white paper actually ever fully. I just literally just, like, I skipped over it. And I listened to Vitalik or, like, the early things that were floating around, and I knew this is it. The idea of making a computation machine on the blockchain makes total sense. I just thought it's so hard to do. And I didn't really give it a lot of chances that they pulled this off, but then they pulled it off pretty quickly. And it just happened so that I was at a meetup in Berlin, a Bitcoin meetup. I think the first one I was ever at. Right. They wanted to open a Bitcoin center Berlin co-working space, basically. Can you imagine what kind of month that might have been? I think that was in, I think it was August 2024. It was literally, like, a week before the Ethereum pre-sale started. Right, right. Like, literally, like, days before. So I met these guys from Ethereum. In this case, it was Aaron, who did the accounting at the time. Yeah. And they told me that they're going to open an office in Berlin, and that there's some kind of news coming out next week, but they can't tell me. And I was already following Ethereum. I was already waiting for the ICO. And, yeah, then it happened. So I took all my Bitcoin that I had at the time, which was 12 Bitcoins, converted them into Ether. I mean, people think, like, oh, my God, 12 Bitcoins, but they were, like, $600 worth or whatever. It was, like, literally not much. I put them all into Ether or pretty much everything. And I knew this was going to be big. I felt it. And this was also the first time a project where I thought I would love to work for this project because it's not about finance, money, and wallets. Because every Bitcoin startup at the time was just about creating a wallet. And I was really interested in creating wallets. And so it just happened that the same, like, six months later, you know, Bitcoin happened, ICO happened, attention came, blah, blah, blah. But I just got an email from a recruiter saying the company Ethereum is looking for a C++ developer. And I was not a C++ developer. Recruiters don't check anything on LinkedIn, I guess, or GitHub. But I knew that they're now looking. So I went to their office and I just chatted with Aaron again. And I saw they had this office here, Waldemar Straße. And I realized that, okay, like, actually, they're really just thinking that they're going to build the nodes. And then, like, people will build on top of the stack. And I just knew, you know, like, I know how to build Singularge apps. This is what you need. I knew this is what they will need to make sure, to show what a DApp can be and show how to, I just felt it. And so I said, like, Aaron, just can, I mean, I showed him this as well and just ask around internally. And they had one Skype group that was kind of like the Discord group at the time, yeah. And funny enough, Alex van der Sander is the one who, like, came on on board as the UX designer also just a month before me. And he had this whole idea of, like, creating this missed browser concept. And I think when Alex heard about that there's this guy, you know, that came up here that can build, you know, single-page apps, blah, blah, blah. Then Alex thought, oh, that could be the person who can help with building the missed browser. So you convinced Jeff, I mean, that's my assumption, what happened. And he tried to call me up. And I was in Turkey on holidays, so I didn't pick up the phone. And then when I came back, I saw someone who called me up. And somehow, I think I called him back or whatever. And, yeah, he said, hey, you want to work here? We want to, like, want to do this and this and la, la, la, la, la. And this was Aaron that you were talking to again? No, this was Alex. Yeah. So I was talking to Afsa. So Afsa wanted to have me because he, I think he probably convinced Jeff because he saw this as a guy who can help build his idea, right? And Jeffrey was kind of skeptical of hiring anyone. This is not a code developer. What the fuck can you do, I guess? That's what he thought.

**[14:54] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** Probably.

SPEAKER_02: What? JavaScript?

SPEAKER_00: Cannot work. So, I mean, you started in, I think it was January 2015. So I guess this discussion would have been in, like, December 2014-ish.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it was December, exactly. Yeah, yeah. It was mid of December. I was on holidays. He tried to call me. And he said, hey, can you start? And I asked, you know, when to start. And he said, yeah, start in January. And Jeffrey obviously really wanted to prove me. So he thought, okay, let me just throw a really complicated task at him. And then we fail anyway, and we can get over with this whole thing. I think that's what Jeffrey thought. So he said, okay, build a chat app for the Whisper protocol. So in Ethereum, there was the Web3, right? The idea of Web3 was the network, storage, the swarm, storage, and communication, the Whisper. Which, by the way, I only figured out later that Web3 means exactly these three things. Fun fact. I always thought, it's like, sure, Web2, we go to Web3.

SPEAKER_00: But that was, yeah, actually, the three. Probably both, right? It's kind of a bit of a joke that you've got both. And I was just looking. So it was November that Alex had done his, you know, missed concept presentation. So I guess that was really quite fresh. It's like, okay, here's the little door.

SPEAKER_02: So he had the idea. And then they were working on it already, early December. And I forgot his name. But the guy who, the French guy who then worked on Remix. I'm sorry, I forgot his name. Oh, Jan Levero. Exactly. So Jan actually built, he built an early version of the missed browser. But in, I think, in C or something like this.

SPEAKER_01: And what's that?

SPEAKER_02: Aft browser. I think there was one called Aft browser. Maybe. It was really early, early kind of missed. It was barely working. And obviously, the whole of the connection stuff was not figured out properly yet. And they just really realized quickly that this is not the way to go. And that's why maybe Alex saw an opportunity here with this JavaScript dude showing up with the single page app. Aft book or whatever.

SPEAKER_00: Because I mean, you'd had Alice Zero as well, right? I guess that was the very first theory thing. Maybe that's what you were thinking of with Jan? Maybe Alice Zero was the, was. And that was like a really, like, really ugly programmer tool, kind of like million control. Yeah, I think Alice Zero was that early missed browser. Exactly.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, anyway. So, so Jeffrey said, hey, let the guy build. You know, like a chat app in the Whisper protocol. So I got dropped into this, you know, novel tech. No documentation. No idea how this shit works. And I was supposed to build a whole chat app using this protocol. And that was kind of crazy. But because I really knew how to build, you know, single page apps that, like, are reactive. And I could work with Jan, actually, on, you know, he gave me just the endpoints that I need to use to get the account and to do the sending the messages and stuff like this. So I pulled it off and build, like, build, like, a chat app. So in a channel, you could basically say, I want to talk about a certain topic. And then you could filter by the topic. So you could see all messages. Or you could say, I want to only see this or that topic. And it's the same, like, threads in Discord, by the way. Right. So I basically made the thread concept of Discord in this tiny app. Right. And it worked. And you were connected with your wallet, you know, that was in your note, in your geth stored. And I think, you know, Jeffrey was quite impressed. And that kind of gave him some confidence that I can do it, even though he was trying to, you know, prove me wrong or prove himself, right, that it's not going to work. And what's crazy is we literally built the Mist Browser in, like, three months. We built the first working version. And we released it with the mainnet. We released the Ethereum wallet. That was July 31st, 2015. So basically six months later, seven months later, we released the first Mist Browser version. And it was so crazy because everything needed to be figured out. I needed to learn all how this stuff works. And initially, in the first two months, it felt literally impossible. And I felt like there's no way I'm going to figure this shit out. Like, there's no way. There was no documentation. It was completely over my head in terms of complexity and shit that I didn't understand at all. But I pulled it off. And I had to, like, obviously, there were people around me that I could talk to. But everybody was also so busy and had to, like, figure out their own thing, you know, because everything had to be figured out at the time. But I had to literally touch every point. I had to, you know, work with the RPC API. And then I saw this thing was kind of messy. You know, sometimes it was returning hacks. Sometimes it was not returning. So I had to basically, I thought, I'm a Virgo. So I immediately tried to fix things and make them proper. So I basically immediately, you know, wanted to make sure this is proper. Because when we launched the nodes, this stuff can't change anymore. Because now, once we start mainnet, you know, you don't want to constantly, like, make stuff unworkable. So I had to fight with Gavin to fix and change the endpoints. And that was quite already, like, a little bit of an uphill battle, let's say. Then I had to get into Web3JS, which Marek was working on. Which was the JavaScript library that, you know, I think Gavin and Jeffrey started. And then I had to help with him or work together with him initially. And then I really contributed to Web3JS because we had to build that into the MIS browser directly. So I was literally the first user of that library and really contributed to that library as well. Right. So we had to make everything up. The whole foundational stack of Ethereum we made up in this, like, first few months. And, you know, because I built the piece that put it all together, like the node, the DApps, the Web3JS, the RPC input, everything into one app. I had to literally touch everything. And I had to go to talk to everybody. That was quite challenging. Not going to lie. And I also realized that Jeffrey's team and Gavin's team was a little disconnected. And they tried to, like, there was a little, like, battle and war going on where everybody wanted to be the one who determines which feature and how. And I just realized, guys, if we are doing like this, that shit is going nowhere, you know, if we don't work together. And it would be too complicated, too much iterations. So I tried to make the team talk, these two teams. But Jeffrey's team, you know, I was part of Jeffrey's team. We were a little bit more open, at least how it felt to me. Gavin really wanted to kind of keep everybody under a bucket. And he didn't want that we talked to this team. But I kind of found back LA ways and back channels to make them sync up. I guess Gavin didn't like that. But it was really needed so that eventually they were starting to work more together and had to do a lot of, you know, connecting, hand-holding. Because I was in this crazy position of being hired by the Amsterdam team while sitting in the office of Gavin of the Berlin C++ team. So I wasn't at the same time as the only person. So I was the connector, you know. I was the translator and the connector, basically. And I had to deal with all the pieces. So I had to deal with, you know, the C++ client had to work as a client in the missed browser as the goal client. So I had to talk to people when something was not working. And it's crazy how much happened in the first six months before the network started. I mean, equally on the network side, right? Like, there was so much just being built and done at the time. But the whole DApp tech stack was literally made up in this moment, in this time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean, I was just looking at the timeline. So September the 16th, 2015 is when the first developer preview of Myst went live. Yeah. I mean, saying about with the two teams, I mean, I guess you were sort of in the position of being the very first person, like, building one layer up. You know, I guess all of the prior efforts were just about the clients and, you know, and making features available on the clients, but not really building things on top and specifically not building things on top to try and be able to work with either. So those interface issues and...

SPEAKER_02: I mean, to be fair, the first DApps probably were built by Gavin and Jeffrey, but they used all the clunky half as stuff. They're only on their own stack, right? And then only on their own stack, yes, I built the first number one DApp browser, like literally generic tool that can run any JavaScript app to connect to the blockchain. And I built it with Alex the Ethereum wallet, which was the first ever DApp on Ethereum, like proper done, designed, cross-client functional thing. Yeah. That's exactly what we did, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: But, yeah, I mean, all of that prior stuff, it was just really on their own stack. A little JavaScript page talking to their own endpoints, yes. Right. I mean, and looking through old videos, there was one, which I think was a talk in London, where both Jeff and Gav were sort of talking about the state of Ethereum and demonstrating some things. So this was October 2014. And one of the demos that they had was one of probably the first on-chain DEX. So they were, you'd got GavCoin and JeffCoin, you know, this is prior to any standards, I guess. And GavCoin was written in LLL and JeffCoin was written in Mutant. But they did do, you know, an on-chain DEX order book thing, you know, so putting a transaction for, like, an offer, like, CPU mining, picking that up. So, you know, you have got that interop. And I guess maybe some of the Whisper stuff was maybe kind of cross-client, but you have really got the UI layer.

SPEAKER_02: So for the chat app, I mainly used the go-client because the Whisper thing on the C++ client was not fully integrated or working. The initial idea was that the Ethereum client will host all three things, Swarm, Whisper, and the network. Obviously, the Swarm never really worked in there, and neither Whisper, which then later got overtaken and supported by status, and now it's transferred into a whole different protocol. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean, this was really, like, foundational times. And I think what people really, like, often misunderstand is how much, number one, Ethereum was generic from day one. Number two, how many ideas were already present earlier. If you watch the misbrowser video from Alex, like, we haven't even built half of this stuff that's in that video. And, in fact, a lot of these foundations are missing. And, for example, now I'm working on universal profiles across a smart content account system. And that's even in the video already in there. Like, you don't see wallets. You see profiles. You see people doing stuff. And only now, literally 10 plus years later, we now have the foundation, and it's not even widely used yet, that even makes that missed video more realistic. And it's not that Alex came up with all of these ideas. This is just what was around at the time. Even, like, right after Bitcoin got attention in 2013 and 2010, these ideas were already around. Like, how can you build decentralized Uber and decentralized this and decentralized that and DAX and whatever. And it's just people think this stuff came all in 2017 and 2020, you know? Like, and this is somehow, like, an invention of, like, the Ethereum Foundation making shit up, you know? Like, this stuff is all, like, it has been around for ages.

SPEAKER_01: Absolutely.

SPEAKER_02: We are just behind when it comes to this stuff, actually.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, you know, you had that sort of cryptocurrency 2.0 phase at the start there, you know, talking about Mastercoin and things, you know? I guess there was a thought that, you know, everything will get built on Bitcoin, you know? That was the initial thing. And, yes, you've got these altcoins and experiments and other things. And, you know, it might kind of come back together. Or even, you know, prior to Bitcoin, you know, because Bitcoin itself was just sort of a manifestation. Of digital cash streams that had gone back for decades with the cypherpunks. And then you've got things like BitTorrent. You know, you did have decentralized messaging things.

SPEAKER_02: And so on, yes. I mean, I was, yeah, it's basically, it's interesting. Back in the day, it was all Reddit, right? Bitcoin, like, all, like, today's crypto Twitter. Back in the day, it was Bitcoin Reddit. Or Reddit are Bitcoin. And Ethereum was the first kind of real challenger to the status quo. And it split the community into the Bitcoin maximalist, the camp that says, no, we only need Bitcoin. Why the heck? You want any other chain? And then the people, and even if my friends circles, you know, and friends developers, some literally never made the move. They never looked into Ethereum stack just because they felt that, what do you care? Bitcoin's all you need. And I just visited a Bitcoin meetup recently, and I was so taken back because it was like walking into like, you know, some kind of like a time portal back into the time. And then 10 years back, same discussions, same problems, same people, same size of groups. And you're suddenly back in some kind of time capsule of the past where the topics that talk about is just like, you know, minor this, minor that, and basic stuff that has been figured out like 100 times already on Ethereum. Like being full and present discussions here and very few developers, which is also very impressive, like how such a network that has so much attention, so much money in it, literally just is developed by 100 people and maybe not even.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I mean, speaking for myself, you know, I was aware of Bitcoin for a good number of years before I had sort of any involvement in the crypto space. But there were sort of two reasons, I guess I wasn't interested, or maybe three, which was firstly, I was a gold bug, and I was a software engineer, and I know how terrible most software is. So like some dude you've never heard of has made like magic internet money, like, come on. But I think more importantly, it was just kind of boring to me because, okay, you can do payments. Okay, well, there you go. Well, that's not very interesting versus here's a platform and you can build apps. That was like, oh, that's kind of interesting. And, you know, maybe you had a fairly similar.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I mean, for me, the money part was, I mean, obviously, it's cool, like, to invest in something that, like, you know, feel is going up and you make some money. And obviously, I had no money as a student here. My parents are not rich or anything. But it's just like, it was just so powerful, the idea that there is a technology that you can, no one can control, that sits above the law, that sits above the influence of humans, because you can't break a system that's based on consensus. And, like, a Hydra has 100,000 heads. And it's just, oh, it's just really, it was fascinating. No, I was really, you know, I mean, I still am, you know, here I am building still on this tank, super pumped about the next phase of this whole technology. But I just never thought it would take that long, to be honest.

SPEAKER_00: No, no. So, I mean, you were working from the Berlin office, but presumably you, you know, you were back and forth to Amsterdam sometimes. Ah, rarely.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, the Amsterdam office, well, we were there maybe, like, twice or so. Like, on the end, the Amsterdam office was really more like a legal hub. And there was obviously Jeffrey and the operations personal assistant that he had. And, like, we were all over the place. So, I worked with Alex mainly, who was literally three, two, or five hours ahead, behind in Brazil, in Rio. Later, we hired multiple people. We hired another person from Rio. Actually, we hired two other person from Rio. At some point, we were three people in the team, four people in the team, even, if I remember, at the peak. But then I also worked on Web3.js. So, I worked with Marek closely, was in the Berlin office. I talked and worked with Christian a lot, who worked on Solidity, was also in the Berlin office. And, obviously, Jan and the other girl that worked on the remix. Left Harris was sitting across me in the Berlin office. Christoph Jentsch came to the Berlin office frequently. So, he was a guy, right? But he was more, like, hired as a kind of contractor to do testing scenarios for the nodes. So, he wrote all these kind of tests to test all kind of inputs and outputs of whatever node behavior. I don't remember exactly. Cross-client, make sure this all, like, functions correctly. And, at the same time, the Ethereum hub, I call it the Ethereum hub. It was never meant to be a hub. But it functioned as the main go-to place. If you want to visit Ethereum, the Berlin office was the place. There was the most people there. And it just really also happened that just people showed up. So, Dominic Williams just showed up before he made HDP. You know, people that I met that, like, really became friends. Gustav, who built a key manager implementation in GoEthereum. Felix, the guy who built still today the network layer. He was also in the office in Berlin. Literally lived across. Right, yeah. And there's a lot of – it was, like, a hub. And I was one of the more social developers inside the group. So, when somebody walked into the office, it was mostly kind of me talking to that person. Because the others just, like, behaved like they didn't know what to do. Like, they just literally, like, didn't – and there was no secretary person or anything, really. So, I just talked to most of the people. And I also – what I was working on, you know, working on the front end, working on the developer stack. I was kind of, like, a little bit, like, you know, on the layer to the outside compared to the people working on the protocols in the inside. So, that also kind of reflected socially.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. So, you missed out on DEVCON 0 because you started just after that. But you will have been to London for DEVCON 1 in November of 2015 then. Yeah, I was, yeah. And token standards were just kind of beginning. The EIP process was just starting. So, I mean, I guess that's sort of like phase two, right? Is your first one is, you know, building a thing and touching everything. And then you're starting to get up to that, you know, on-chain token layer. So, how did all that kind of grew up?

SPEAKER_02: So, I mean, the whole standardization for me started when Vitaly created the GitHub wiki page because he wanted to standardize tokens, ENS kind of registry, and maybe an early version of a DEX, I don't remember. And he just, like, we had some discussion around a GitHub page, literally, a GitHub docs page. And he made the early version of ERC20, and we debated a little bit on there, on mainly, like, you know, Skype and some comments on this page. And then, yes, and then London happened. And so, what happened is it's actually funny because there was this, there was a panel. It's a panel about standardization. So, I presented a lot of things there. I presented the missed browser. Yeah, I think I presented the missed browser. Maybe something else. But I was also on this panel about standardization. And fun fact, we discussed, I watched it the other day, and we discussed, you know, standards. And there was two main discussions. Oh, should we put metadata into the contract directly? In this case, the idea was, do we put the metadata of a token, like token name and symbol, into the contract? Or do we create a registry for it? Right. And in a way, that's kind of also today still the big split. You know, do you put information into a registry, like ENS? Or do you put it into the user-owned contract itself? Or do you make a registry for AI? Or do you put the metadata in the account of the AI itself? And it's still, and it's going to be another discussion coming, funnily enough. And we literally discussed this. And actually, what's funny, when I looked at this, I literally said, they asked us, what are you interested in in standardization? And I said, you know, the account system. I called it proxy contract because there was no notion of an account. But I called it the proxy contract was actually my main interest. Funny enough, I later created ERC-725, and now Universal Profiles as the fulfillment of that. But it's kind of funny that it wasn't even sparked there already. I talked about key management at the time, and we didn't even propose ERC-20. It's kind of nice. So, but in this conversation, Martin Deasy before created the EIP repository. And I think Gavin or whatever mentioned, like, where do we do the standardization? And I think he mentioned in that very thing, yeah, we have the EIP repository. That would be the right place. And I think that inspired me in this moment, like, oh, yeah, actually, we could put it there. So that's when I then created this, the issue number 20. And I think I recall the Ethereum request for comment because of the request for comment thing. I'm not sure, you know, I came up with the name by myself or whoever came up with the name. But I created the issue, and I formatted the whole discussion that we had there, like a current version in a proper specification. Because I felt, number one, we need to involve the community. Like, if you want to have a consensus around the token standard, right, everybody needs to listen and have at least an insight. And second, it needs to be in a structured way where not everybody, like, randomly edits, like, this file. And this is actually the exact comment that Gavin made, funny enough. Editing, we all laughed about editing was on that one wiki file. Yeah. In a way, like, I then structured the process through that and created EOS 20. As a proposal, I made a few changes that's, like, just, like, some filing, like, some turning around, like, the transfer function, what's first, value, blah, blah, blah, blah, or amount or whatever. And then we had a discussion, but we didn't really change much anymore. And, yeah, so we discussed there about 60 people in total, 300 comments. But pretty much after quite a while already, everybody kind of felt more or less that this makes sense. The big discussion was around authorized operator or not, should we have it or not. I was kind of against it. So, fun fact, when I create the first test coin, the missed coin that I used then to test in the missed browser, I did the authorized operator functions. And because I didn't like it, I really liked more the idea of informing recipients, but I was also too early to do that because we had no idea of the side effects of that. Right. So, in my test coin, I just didn't add the authorized operator. I didn't see a need. Fun fact, later, people picked up the missed coin, like, as a collectible meme token, collectible coin. And because it was a real ESC20, but because it doesn't have the authorized operator function, it didn't work in Uniswap. So, they wrapped it. And that's why it's not a missed coin, which is the real missed coin inside a token that has the function to interact with DEX. But this was just a test token. It was never meant to. I just, over the years, gave a bunch of those to random people who asked me until, like, a whole group of people, like, really wanted to make this valuable. And now it's traded. I mean, now it has a market cap and people trade it. And it is what it is. I mean, it's the first ESC20. I mean, it's not the first first. I think there was a preliminary version that Vitalik built before that that was not very functional or standardized. And this was, like, the first one that kind of fit the spec, except the operator stuff.

SPEAKER_00: So, there's a deployment of that out, which was launched, I believe, by RFiki, based on Vitalik's repo or what have you there, called CurrencyCoin, is what that one is called. But, again, another, they call these relic tokens, relic coins. Yes. Like I'm doing sort of human social history. There are people doing on-chain history of, you know, what was the first instance of that.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, it's also the crazy thing is, you know, the stuff is around. The transaction is around. The code is still around. It's like a relic. And it's, like, it's provable the thing. And the fun fact is I deployed that, I think, a week before I actually proposed the ESC20 spec. Right. So, I felt that we were kind of more or less, and it was probably around the time of this first DEFCON. I might have, we can't even check if it was before this DEFCON or after, or I don't remember. But probably maybe a day or two before that I deployed that thing. I think we also, yes, we also needed it for testing or showing something. I don't remember. But, I mean, yeah, we needed to test, you know, like, how could tokens work in there or whatever. But it's really, yeah, anyway, that's how it happened.

SPEAKER_00: It may well have been for the DEFCON 1 demo for your presentation.

SPEAKER_02: No, I mean, we did it for, I mean, yes, DEFCON did really, like, you know, push us a lot to get some features done and some things done. The token was not yet in there, really, because the token thing was still kind of very out there. Like, also, no one really had, I mean, we all knew that people want to make tokens. And that's why kind of, like, you know, Vitalik started this, because I think he felt an urgency from the community. But it was not of anybody's mind that now tokens need to be, like, a primary focus. It was just like, hey, do it, let's do it. The wallet was not really meant to immediately be super supportive of that, except that I created the test card for that. And we played around, but it was not an urgency. That just really didn't happen after this, then, ERC-20, then kicked off the ICO wave. And that's when everything went completely bananas.

SPEAKER_00: And, I mean, I'm guessing, you know, that ERC-20 standard, you had no idea that it would have so much sticking power.

SPEAKER_02: No. I mean, no one could. I guess no one could. I mean, I knew people needed it. I knew it's going to be a thing that people will do, because already on MasterCoin before, there was colored coins.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: The concept of creating other currencies on top of the Bitcoin blockchain, and they call it colored coins. So, there was clearly a need for it. But I found the idea of just creating random tokens for random stuff kind of boring. Because for me, then, it's like, okay, let's know what is the value of this, you know? Why would you create a token? And, honestly, if you look back, and if you look today, most tokens don't make fucking sense, right? Like, there was so much unnecessary tokens that just make no sense and had no purpose. And I was always a big fan of, like, a native currency, or a native blockchain token, because that thing makes sense. Yeah. You remove it, the network doesn't work. There's no way you remove that token, at least right now, and the network still is functional and economically viable and secure. So, but with all the other tokens, that was not the case.

SPEAKER_00: Like, I guess it's just sort of, like, the simplest thing you could do. It's like, okay, well, what can you do? Well, hey, look, you can make new tokens. So, there's no need to, like, make new, you know, new chains and find new miners, right? You can just float it on Ethereum. So, it's like a simple thing. But it's like, okay, here's the very first sort of thing. It's not very interesting. But, you know, we've done something.

SPEAKER_02: The thing is, like, what people don't really realize, how much more we were thinking ahead of, like, hey, wow, we can do really cool, how we can really change society with this technology. That was actually more interesting to people working in Ethereum than thinking how to make a fucking token. And how to, like, the whole Dex, DeFi stuff, like, mainly came from the outside, too. It was other people that just saw an opportunity to make money or financial Lego, whatever. And, but internally, there were not a lot of people who got very excited about this, honestly. I mean, as far as I remember. Or maybe that was at least my perspective. Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, DEFCON won. There was also more speculation, right? And more speculation is not necessarily good, specifically in an environment in the early days where the regulatory insecurity and uncertainty was just so high. So, the last thing we all wanted is now every eye is on us because we're trying to compete with banks. So, I think it actually made us all uncomfortable. At least that's how I felt about it and how I think other people saw it, too. It's just the outside world, like, immediately jumped on it. Like, yeah, money, money, money, money. You know, and that was not the point of the technology in the first place, actually.

SPEAKER_00: No, no. I mean, I sort of remember at the time thinking, you know, that's one of the least interesting parts. It's like, you know, okay, yeah, you can have that raw speculation, but it's like, that's nothing new versus going, well, what are all these new things that we can build? Yeah, exactly, exactly. Yeah, so, I mean, DEFCON 1, I think, was quite seminal in terms of, like, bringing together, like, most people for the first time in the DEFCON 0 being this internal event. But, you know, DEFCON 1 was, it was like the first public Ethereum conference. I sadly did not get to go. I could not afford to go. But what are your memories at the time? I mean, you must have seen so many things and so many people.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, so I have actually been in, I think I have been in every DEFCON so far, except Zero, which was only 20 people in Berlin. And I was not at the DEFCONnect in Istanbul. Right. Apart from that, I was at every DEFCON. I was always speaking at the first few DEFCONs, but then the moment I was not at the foundation anymore and doing another blockchain, then you're like, oh, outcast, you know. And, yeah, it's, yeah, it is, it is what it is. So, even though the tech I'm building now and the tech I have been also building over the years is extremely relevant to Ethereum, the ecosystem as well. But somehow, also the people who pick them to talks and so on in the later years, right, they are fresh. Some of them literally don't even know the history. So, that's why actually the work that you're doing is really important because you are the archivist, you know, of Ethereum. And you really, like, with that, hold up the truth story and the participants and the contributions and make that visible and transparent to people. Because I have talked to so many people and they have barely any idea of what, like, how Ethereum came to be, who contributed, who did what. It's, like, completely unknown people just, like, you know, came in in 2017 for ICOs, 2020 for ICOs and DeFi, 2022 for NFTs. And for them, Ethereum is just one chain. There's all the other chains and they do AMAs and Ethereum doesn't do AMAs. And it's, like, it's all a big shit show, honestly. So, it's good that the work that you're doing, like, kind of a, because I have, and there's so many contributors that have not gotten the recognition that they deserve. I mean, Felix, for example, in my opinion, it's a great example. That dude literally built the, and it's building still, the communication layer of the Ethereum network and how the nodes talk to each other. And he has done that without fame or attention for years. And Felix, man, this is, sorry. Felix Lang? Yeah, Felix Lang, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I spoke to him in Buenos Aires. And the funny thing is, he, like, he's such a humble guy, you know. You know, he was saying to me, you know, I really don't like early days of Ethereum. You know, I don't, you know, I don't want, you know, I don't want the attention, you know, like. Like, so I was saying to him, you know, like, you're, you're, like, the longest serving person at the EF, I think, after, after Vitalik. And he's like.

SPEAKER_02: That's true.

SPEAKER_00: You know, he's like. I'm just like a janitor, you know, I'm, I just turn up and I maintain the thing and I, you know, I don't, I don't want any of that focus. I don't like any of that. It was just like a job for me, you know.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, Felix is specifically crazy and I think there's a little self-punishment, but he didn't even buy any ether, you know, at all. So I literally, and then because I thought, like, what the fuck are you doing? I mean, this is likely, I mean, I knew this is going to go big just because I knew this is such a revolutionary technology. And, and I just, and I couldn't barely afford any, but, but I thought the guy has none. He said, yeah, if I don't have a use for ether, if I don't want to build an app, why would I need some? And I was like, and I thought, that's kind of stupid. I mean, I mean, because you invest in your energy and time here, like, you should have at least some reward. And what people don't understand, most people that worked at Ethereum didn't care about the money or an investment. Neither did I. I mean, that was not the reason why we joined. And we joined because it was truly, and it is truly a game-changing revolutionary technology. But so what I did is I donated some to him and I made everybody in the team donate some to him. So at least he got like, I don't know, a hundred ether or whatever. I don't know if he kept it or not. I mean, I guess he did. And I even made Jeffrey give some and Jeffrey gave almost the same amount like us. I mean, we had barely any, but Jeffrey has a fuckload. It was so weird. I was like, dude, Jeffrey, you can give a little more. I found a little knauser.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: I literally forced him to his detail, basically. I mean, I think the thing that a lot of newer people, you know, don't comprehend is how little that money or whatever was on motivation at all. For many of the people, you know, it was really about, well, what can you build and what can we, you know, what can happen? You know, like there was no certainty whatsoever that it was even going to work. It was even going to launch, but it was even going to have any kind of, you know, success. It was like, you know, maybe this can think that happened. You know, it would be great if it could. Like, let's try.

SPEAKER_02: But, you know, this money was never the money was never the intention of no one that I know. So, I mean, obviously, some of us felt, I mean, that this can be big, but we had no idea. And at the same time, there was Bitcoin rising. And obviously, you know, Bitcoin had a lot more traction and Bitcoin was more of a safe bet. Ethereum was a complete gamble. And when I, you know, donated this Ether, also people say, well, you gave him 100 Ether. I don't know how much he on the end got, but it was like, I don't know. The whole thing was $300 or $400. It was nothing. Like, it cost literally 40, 50, 60 cents. And, like, it was not $3,000, nor $10, nor $20. It was literally nothing. It was a few hundred dollars. And it was all, and we had all, like, you know, 10, 20 Ether on some wallets laying around just for building stuff. I hope I could find some of those again. But all these keys were ethereal and some code base, maybe or maybe not, whatever. Yeah, nobody cared really, actually, to be honest. Not of the people who worked internally. But from the outside, they all thought we all just did it for making this thing, you know, big and get rich. It was weird, you know. The perception on the outside is sometimes really, like, distorted.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, you know, talking to that ICO and, you know, that monetary speculation, I mean, I remember at the time, you know, almost being sort of, like, repulsed at that, you know, that speculative thing. And especially the projection of that mindset onto the people that we're actually building and saying, oh, you know, you guys.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, you're just doing this to grow it. Exactly.

SPEAKER_00: It's a free mind. You're just giving yourself the money. You know, it's just, like, who needs smart contracts? You know, it's all a scam. Look at you guys, you know. And also, I think, also the assumption, oh, you're all massively rich. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's so wrong. You know, Felix thing of not having any F. That was me as well. And the reason why is because I haven't got any money. I haven't got any money. Like, I was impoverishing myself, even being involved, you know. I was just volunteering for a very long time, like, with nothing. And then even when I got hired at the foundation, I was getting paid 60K a year, which was, like, half of what my prior salary had been. It was not.

SPEAKER_02: And also, I mean, same for me. My salary at the foundation was 60K. And only towards the end, when we had a little bit of success, I negotiated it up to 90K. And that was, you know, before tax. And same with the Ether. It's like, you know, everybody thinks, yeah, if you got Ether back then, you must be insanely rich. It's like, dude, like, when that hit $10, we all thought we made it to the universe, you know. And, like, now you cash out, like, a few hundred thousand and you think you're super rich. Same with also some of the early people who had a lot more Ether. I mean, they cashed out 100,000 Ether, like, for, I don't know, a dollar, right? Because they thought this is really high. Yeah. I mean, barely anybody that I know held it until it, like, hit a few hundred and thousand of dollars. And people don't understand. They were 10 plus years or now 10 years. And they were, like, five plus years passing with many ups and downs and bubbles. Obviously, I mean, I have no Ether anymore since many, many years. I mean, I spent them all. And, you know, my ex-wife has a few more ideas of what you wanted to have it on. And then all the house that now belongs to the parents of her and stuff just, like, when, when, and then, you know, obviously, I'm working on Luxo. And a lot of my money went all into supporting that now. Yeah. So, the idea that, like, I mean, if I would have held everything that I had, sure, that would be a lot of money. But that means you're literally not spending any money during all the years and you only live with your salary. And second, you literally trust so much that this is going to be worth a lot. And it's impossible. Like, barely anyone.

SPEAKER_00: It's such a naive thinking, honestly. It's this sort of impossible fantasy of saying, you know, assuming that, yeah, you're going to sit and you're not going to, you're going to say, okay, it's 100x. No, no, no. It's 1,000x. No, no, keep going.

SPEAKER_02: I know 10,000% is possible. Yes.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So, I mean, going back to DevCon 1, I was looking at some of the videos recently and it's, like, pretty much any idea you could ever imagine seemed to be presented there. I mean, did you see most of the presentations?

SPEAKER_02: I mean, this is the thing most people don't understand. Like, this shit that people talk about right now is not being made up now. That stuff has been made up before, tried before. For example, base, like, launches, launched the feed that they're now cut off again, right? Like, where you have a post and then people bet on this. I mean, Steemit did that four years ago. And at least they did it smart because it wasn't a Reddit-style feature where Reddit-like posts stay longer, right? They have more value over time. And while posts that literally disappear after scrolling a page, it's not worth betting on them. That's fucking scamming people, right? None of that stuff we see is new. And what is fascinating to me is that the space today is still built more or less on the same foundations. On the basis, if you go to the bottom of the bottom, it's the same foundations that we literally made up in the first six months and the first year of Ethereum. It's the same provider. Now there's a bit of a different way how it's injected. Same provider. How your DEF connects to the node. Same RPC endpoints. Pretty much not too much added here either. EOAs have been the default since back then. And fun fact, Jeffrey told me, you guys should not expose the public key or the public key, the EOA, to the user. You should use a smart content account. And that stuck with me. And he was right. But it was so early. We had no idea. I mean, we tried to barely figure out how to make any transaction work for that matter. And now think about routing this through a smart contract. That was just absurd. But he was right. And now in all these years, that's what I built. Now I built exactly that kind of foundation that we discussed back in the day and that we wanted back in the day. But it took all of this learning and all of this, and in fact, it also took me stepping outside, out of the theme ecosystem, creating a different standards track in order to even do that. Because when you just do that in this existing ecosystem with existing standards debates, it's just so slow. And you need to be backwards compatible. You need to think in ways that you just move the current wagon along. Because if you want to make radical changes, you have so many people that will just try to either intervene or move it around and shift it around. And it goes nowhere. So I needed to do that in a kind of different approach. Kind of funny enough, you know, I kind of coined the ERC request for comment standard space to then go off and create the Luxor standards proposals and do it there, even though that's just Ethereum standards too. Just so that I could do it right. And it's going to show. That video will be obviously on the internet. So let's see in a few months, in a year from now, and it will show that that was the necessary approach to evolve.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, you were at the EF working on MIST through to 2017? No, August 2018. 2008. 2018. 2018. So, I mean, what further work happened in MIST between that very first release and the sun setting? I mean, what was that further?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, so my work was not only in the MIST browsers. So I actually worked for three and a half years at Ethereum. And then in the later years, I really started working more on the developer tools. I mean, I overtook Web3.js, which was the main JavaScript library at the time. When Marek left with Gavin to join Parity or ETH Core, I overtook Web3.js. So I mainly maintained this library. I built the Web2, the 2.0 version of it. That was the last thing I did before I left. Right. Releasing the 2.0 version of that app or that library. And I kind of stepped in the last year, I stepped a little out of the MIST team. I mean, I was just focused on the other things more, but I was still like, you know, you know, kind of the main developer in MIST. But now there was more maintenance. The thing is, we really tried to create more of the MIST browser. It was quite complicated because we were always lagging behind Chromium and Electron.js. So Electron.js used Chromium. Chromium is what we then used. And so if there was a bug or something like this in Chromium, it needed to first be supported by Electron.js before we could support this. So it was quite a cycle. We worked a lot on the interface. On the end, like the Ethereum wallet, or people called it the MIST wallet, was basically the main thing ever really used. People never really fully used it as a Web3 browser. But we built all kinds of features in there. I built things in there that an app could set notifications on the sidebar. And so there's a lot of features that we added to the browser that were never really fully used. Just because the moment, the biggest problem for the MIST browser, and in a way, the death of the MIST browser, was the slow syncing of the Ethereum nodes.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And because we wanted to do it the full decentralized way, we didn't just want to talk to a backend node that someone hosted. And also, the Ethereum Foundation probably wouldn't have paid for a node hosted on a server for everyone else to connect to.

SPEAKER_00: I completely believe that. There was so much peeping out on costs.

SPEAKER_02: It would have been so easy to, instead of talking to the local host node, to talk to a remote node. I mean, I could have added that feature in no time. The reason, because we didn't do this, because it really just went against the whole idea of really doing it decentralized. The only problem is that then after, you know, six, seven, eight months, syncing the MIST browser, if you didn't have it open for a week, took sometimes half an hour and plus. So what happened is Metamask, you know, came up, you know, Kumavis came up with the idea, okay, I built a browser extension connected to a remote node, and I do a light version of Metamask. And I just injected it into an existing browser. And that idea won. So Metamask kind of like, in a way, outcompeted the MIST browser. And then on top of this, you know, the difficulties of keeping it secure is on the end what made us shut it down. But then we had a lot more ideas. I mean, look at the video. Like, we hadn't even started, we hadn't even really started playing out the idea of the MIST browser fully. But at the time, it was just not, it was not the right time. But it really showed a lot of people how things can be done, why to do it this way, how to build the apps, how to, you know, yeah, it set the stage, basically.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, in terms of that, you know, local node, full decentralization, I mean, I remember as well thinking, yeah, of course that's going to happen, right? Of course, you're going to, like, everyone's going to have an Ethereum node running, like, on every device, you know. It'll be like, yeah, you'll have one running in the background on your phone. They'll be in, like, every router, media station, like, every computer.

SPEAKER_02: Also, there was the idea of the light clients, you know, and we knew there were light clients coming. And we really bet on the fact that the light client will solve that problem. Yeah. The only problem is the light client never came, or it came, but it was not cross-clined, and it didn't really fully work. So, yeah, we hoped a lot on the light client. This was why we kept doing it this way, because the idea was, once you have the light client, the thing is like this.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so, you know, we'll just build on the full node, build on the full node for now, and then, you know, that light client will come in.

SPEAKER_02: And I think we actually came that far. I mean, I think there was versions of the misbrowser that had guests built in with light client support that synced very fast. But at the time, by this time, you know, people already really moved on to MetaMask. And, again, security and other reasons on the end, like, made us kind of, like, you know, give up. But I already moved on to Web3JS at the time, mainly with my focus, because that wasn't the tool. Everybody was using it. Yeah. I mean, 70 million, 140 million downloads. God knows what it has nowadays. It's still used to download a lot, even though now VM and others took over. And then at some point, it was only mainly, like, then, yeah, when I left, then at some point, Alex shut it down for the reasons also, because, yeah. I mean, it had its purpose, you know. Yeah, yeah. And, by the way, the idea of the misbrowser is still a very valid idea. And, in fact, you know, what I'm building now is a cross. It's like a misbrowser mobile, which is actually interesting, because what I'm building now is almost like a full circle.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So, I introduced a smart content account, the same like Jeffrey said, we should do it. That's the foundation of your access to Web3. And then you have a web browser in an app that allows you to interact with the apps easily while doing it in a human-focused way. So, not wallet-focused way, but profile-focused way, safe way, easy gas, in a way that, like, literally works for humans. Which was also, by the way, the idea of the misbrowser. It was not to be meant for nerds and techies. It was meant to be normal people interacting with this new technology, right? That was the whole point. And this is going to come now with the Universal Profile app as kind of like a misbrowser on mobile in its first version.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, you know, the goal being not just to sort of replicate existing applications, but on the blockchain, but to enable these things that, like, weren't possible before, right? Having this hub, integrating all of these different pieces of your life that was, like, real utility.

SPEAKER_02: Exactly. And what's actually interesting, and that's really, for me, the most surprising thing, is we are 10 plus years into Ethereum. Yeah. And there's so many networks, EVM, apps. The most ones are very financial-focused, which is also something that really turned me then off. So the moment DeFi happened, I thought, like, that's just a big gamble park. I mean, it's important protocols. They're really important, but it just became such a gamble park and casino that it was just really turning me off. But what's interesting is we go to conferences. You know, we go to any place you can go in the world, and you meet Web3 people, and no one is using Web3 apps. Like, literally. Like, you have some, obviously, people have wallets, and maybe they're purchasing a coin here and there. But, like, interacting with actual apps, like voting on something, joining a community, giving reputation, doing all the things you could do on chain, it doesn't happen. And honestly, that, for me, is something I would never have thought. If somebody would have told me in 2015 or 2016 or 2017 that in 10 years there's still no actual users using the apps, I would have thought, like, number one, if that happens, it's a total fail. Yeah. And number two, there's no way this is true. Like, what are the chances? And here we are.

SPEAKER_00: It's funny, crazy. I remember in 2018, I went to the Consensus conference, like the Consensus, not Consensus, conference in New York, so New York Blockchain Week, and there was a panel there that was sort of almost like a Bitcoin versus Ethereum thing. And you have Jimmy Song, you know, fucking dickhead with his cowboy hat, and you had Joe Lubin. And Jimmy was basically saying, you know, like, dApps are, you know, useless, smart contracts are useless, like nobody's going to be, like, using these in five years. And, like, him and Joe having a bet, you know, for a pretty significant amount of Bitcoin. I can't remember what it ended up being in the end. And I don't know what, you know, but then they were, like, talking about