SPEAKER_00: So hello and welcome to early days of Ethereum. I am delighted today to be joined by Fabian Vogelstella. Is that the correct pronunciation.

SPEAKER_01: Like an F? The V is more like an F. But yes.

SPEAKER_00: Right, very Germanic pronunciation. That's not going to come out of my mouth. So yeah, you know, great, great to see you. We, we, we saw each other at DevConnect in November I think for the first time for, for quite a while and, and had a good catch up there. But, but hello.

SPEAKER_01: So hey, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: What, what, what were you doing prior? Wandering into, into blockchain world.

SPEAKER_01: So okay, let's start from the beginning. Okay, so what I was doing before blockchain, I was actually a web developer. So I started out as, I mean I build websites since I was 14. My findura, the name that I have on Twitter is actually the name of the content management system that I built I think in 2005. And it just happened to be, you know, turning into my second identity. So I have two identities in the Internet. Frozen man and Pandura. It's all just connected to two things in GitHub. I'm frozen and that's also my GitHub history with Ethereum and so on. And Pandora is then my online one. Yeah, I mean I basically, you know, was always interested in the cutting edge of like the cool Internet stuff in the 90s, you know, building in the first 2000s my first websites or 1990, whatever, eight, nine, you know, following the whole evolution of the Internet with HTML CSS, HTML1 and 2 and CSS1 2 and JavaScript and coming in and blah blah blah. So mainly did web development but I studied media design so I didn't study anything with coding. All the coding is autodidactically learned, so I haven't. Yeah, there's nothing that came from, from Honestly even when I joined Ethereum I had no clue about bytes and how to manipulate bytes and stuff. Still don't have, actually I still don't know.

SPEAKER_00: Didn't have your computer science background. I don't have any computer science background.

SPEAKER_01: Not sure what, I don't know what I'm doing on, on the computer. I just know how to interact with like high level languages and now I only know how to speak to AI and to my team.

SPEAKER_00: That's all you need. Things changed and you wrote a book.

SPEAKER_01: I wrote a book about Meteor js. So I, yeah, I got really obviously into web development. I did a lot of websites and built a lot of things. I built my own content management system in PHP and I Build a flat file based content management system. So that means that this doesn't need a database. The whole idea was, okay, I just want to have one of these FTP PHP ready servers and if I want to move my. It was literally all about the independence of hosting providers. Right? If I want to move from this hosting provider to the other. I mean back in the day migrating databases was a nightmare and probably still is a nightmare. Oh yeah, it was. Oh, if I build a flat file based thing, you just copy the whole folder structure over to the other server and it works. And it did. So that was what definedura.org CMS does and did. I mean obviously who uses a PHP today but Facebook does? No, but, but I mean, yeah, now I have a bunch of haters in the PHP community, but yeah, I mean so yeah, I built that thing and that was really like helping me like to kind of like do a full project front to end. And then I got more into JavaScript and I got really excited by Meteor Jazz, which was one of the first reactive JavaScript frameworks that was before Angular, before React and it was the first time where you just could Write like this JavaScript code and, and this HTML stuff and when you update stuff in the JavaScript or in your local state, like the HTML got rerendered natively. Super magic. So I got really into this and, and I wrote a book about it. I have it here. If you ever wanna. I would never, I would never read a tutorial book to be honest. But I wrote one thing.

SPEAKER_00: People even read books anymore.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean honestly I would never even. It was so much work to do this. And the reason why I did is because they reached out to me and I thought like yeah, I could do that. And then, you know, Marjorie, my ex wife back in the day, encouraged me and I thought like okay, why not? And on the end it was a lot of work. I mean literally like four months of waking up and I had a kid, two year old, two year old kid at the time and I had to wake up very early or maybe a year old, I don't remember. And I had to wake up very early at five to you know, write one or two, three pages or five pages, whatever and then go to work. It was intense. You get an hour rel rate of like 10 cents. So it made totally no money. I literally probably made like exactly like 10 cents per hour or something like this.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: But it's reputation and in a, in a way I think that also what got me into Ethereum because, because what is this writing single page apps with Meteor. And what is a D app? It's a single page app.

SPEAKER_00: It's.

SPEAKER_01: The whole point literally runs in your browser, doesn't require a backend. And I built actually a tool that allowed you to strip out the server part of the Meteor app so you can handle it as a local app. It's actually quite. It was quite a popular repository called Meteor Build Client. And yeah, that's what I use for dapps in the early days in Ethereum too.

SPEAKER_00: Is Meteor still an active project? Is anyone using Meteors too?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, no, I. I totally think so. I think so, yeah. I mean, I don't know how frequent they are. Yeah, I haven't checked it out in a long time. No.

SPEAKER_00: But I mean, it was quite, quite a revolution at the time. The single page app.

SPEAKER_01: It was the first, you know, it was literally like, it was one of the first. It was the first framework that I know that really was a proper framework and it's just solved the whole thing from account creation to reactive DOM updates to server client synchronization. It was magic. Yeah, it blew a lot of people away. And then all the other React and so on were kind of more like answers to this. And then React brought it back to the weird way of mixing code and UI in the same files, which I already found very bad in PHP times.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And then I guess you maybe sort of found your way into bitcoin world in some form.

SPEAKER_01: So, yeah, 2013, I heard about Canadian wants to sell house in Bitcoin. And I thought, okay, wow, what's that? Like somebody's selling a house in a currency I've never heard of. And that really led me very quickly down the rabbit hole of, of this was 2013, March. That was literally when Bitcoin hit 200 in that very same month. And number one, I saw, okay, there's money to, to be made here. Um, and I, I was a student with no money. So, like, you know, trying, like, you have your hope. Okay, okay, maybe I can make a little bit of money on the side this way. But I really quickly understood the fundamental power of this technology. And it took me like about a year to really understand how it works fully. I mean, I literally had this epiphany every month that I thought, like, now I know how it works. Ah, it took me a year to really construe my brain, you know, no, no servers and frameworks, you know, and how this basic stuff works. And then the crypto blockchain stuff was just so out there in a way how this stuff works. But yeah, so I, I was in the space and then in 2000 and obviously, you know, right after I joined the bitcoin community, then there was the first altcoin Litecoin. And then in 2013 there was a lot of like projects that were created trying to imitate bitcoin or do an improvement or do alternate versions. I also got really into Master Coin, the idea of just writing onto the bitcoin blockchain rather than creating a separate blockchain.

SPEAKER_00: Right. And you're in Berlin. Right. Were were you going to meetups or like, did you find Fellow.

SPEAKER_01: It was just online. There were no meetups at the time, really. Like not in my region. So what actually happened in 2000? And so they were done later. 2014, there were then some meetups and so I heard about Ethereum. I really knew that. I just felt immediately that this is a really powerful approach, but it also sounded so unrealistic. So when I heard like this, this, I mean, I looked at the white paper. I never really read the Ethereum white paper actually ever fully. I just literally just like I skipped over it and I, I t. I listened to Vitalik and I. Or like the early things that were floating around and I knew this is it. The idea of making this computation machine on the blockchain makes total sense. I just thought it's so hard to do. And I'm. I didn't really give it a lot of chances of that. They pulled this off, but then they pulled it off pretty quickly and it just happened so that I was at a meetup in Berlin, a bitcoin meetup, I think the first one I was ever at.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: They wanted to open a. A bitcoin center, Berlin. Co working space, basically.

SPEAKER_00: Can you imagine what kind of month.

SPEAKER_01: That might have been that was in. I think it was August 2024. It was literally like a week before the Ethereum presale started.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: Like literally like days before. So I met these guys from Ethereum. In this case was Aaron, who did the accounting at the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And they told me that they are going to open an office in Berlin and that there's some kind of news coming out next week, but he can't tell me. And I was already following Ethereum. I wasn't already waiting for the ico. And yeah, then it happened. So I took all my bitcoin that I had at the time, which was 12 bitcoins, converted them into Ether. I mean, people think like, oh my God, 12 bitcoins but they were like 600 worth or whatever. It was like literally not much. I put them all into Ether or pretty much everything. And I knew this is going to be big. I felt it. And, and this was also the first time a project where I thought I would love to work for this project because it's not about finance, money and wallets because every bitcoin startup at the time was just about creating a wallet and I was really interested in creating wallets. And so it just happened that the same like six months later, you know, bitcoin happened, ICO happened, attention came, blah, blah, blah. I just got an email from a recruiter saying the company Ethereum is looking for a C developer and I was not a C developer. Recruiters don't check anything on LinkedIn, I guess or GitHub. But I knew that they're now looking. So I went to their office and I just chatted with Aaron again and I saw that this office here, Waldemar Strasse and I realized that okay, actually they really just thinking that they're going to build the nodes and then like people will build on top of the stack. And I just knew, you know, like I know how to build single apps. This, this is what you need. I knew this is what they will need to make sure to show what a D app can, can be and show how to. I just felt it and so I said like Aaron just, just can. I mean I showed him this as well and just ask around internally. And they had one Skype group that was kind of like the Discord group at the time. Yeah, and funny enough, Alex van der Sande is the one who came on board as the UX designer also just a month before me. And he had this whole idea of creating this Mist browser concept and I think when Alex heard about that there's this guy that came up here that can build single page apps, then Alex thought, oh, that could be the person who can help with building the Mist browser. So he convinced Jeff, I mean that's my assumption what happened? And, and he tried to call me up and I was in, in Turkey on holiday. So I didn't pick up the phone. And then when I came back I saw someone, he called me up and somehow I think I called him back or whatever and yeah, I said, hey, you want to work here? We want, like want to do this and this and, and this was Aaron.

SPEAKER_00: That you were talking to again?

SPEAKER_01: No, this was Alexa. Yeah, so I was talking to afsa. So, so AFSA wanted to have me because he, he, I think he, he probably convinced Jeff because he saw this as a guy who can help build his idea. Right. And Jeffrey was kind of skeptical of hiring anyone. There's not a co developer. What the can you do, I guess is what he thought probably watch JavaScript cannot work.

SPEAKER_00: So I mean you started in, in was. I think it was January 2015. So I guess this discussion would have been in like December 2014.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly. Yeah, yeah, it was mid of December, I was on holidays. He tried to call me and yeah, he said, hey, can you start and ask, you know when to start? He said, yeah, start in January. And Jeffrey obviously really wanted to prove me, so he thought, okay, let me just throw a really complicated task at him and then we'll fail anyway and we can get over with this whole thing. I think that's what Jeffrey thought. So he said, okay. Build a chat app for the Whisper protocol. So in Ethereum There was the Web3, right. The idea of Web3 was the network storage, the swarm storage and communication, the Whisper. Which by the way I only figured out later that Web three means exactly these three things. Fun fact, I always thought it's like, sure, Web two, we go to Web three. But that was actually the three, probably both.

SPEAKER_00: Right. It's, it's kind of a bit of a bit of a joke that you've got, you've got both. And I was just looking. So it was November that Alex had done his, you know, missed concept presentation. So I guess that was really quite fresh. It's like, okay.

SPEAKER_01: So he had the idea and then they were working on it already early December and I forgot his name. But the guy who, who the French guy who then worked on Remix. I'm sorry, I forgot.

SPEAKER_00: Jan Laborer.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly. So Jan actually built, he built an early version of the Mist browser, but in I think in C or something like this and browser, I think there.

SPEAKER_00: Was one called fbrowser.

SPEAKER_01: Maybe it was really early, early kind of missed. It was barely working and obviously the whole idea connection stuff was not figured out properly yet. And they just really realized quickly that this is not the way to go. And, and that's why maybe Alex saw an opportunity here with this JavaScript dude showing up with the single page app book or whatever.

SPEAKER_00: You'd had Aleph0 as well, right? I guess that was the very first GUI thing. Maybe that's what you were thinking of with Yan.

SPEAKER_01: Maybe Alice 0 was the was and.

SPEAKER_00: That was like a really like really ugly programmer tool. Kind of like million control.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I think Alice Zero was that early Ms. Browser. Exactly. Yeah, yeah. Anyway, so. So Jeffrey said, hey, let the guy build a chat app in the Whisper protocol. I got dropped into this novel tech, no documentation, no idea how the shit works, and I was supposed to build a whole chat app using this protocol and that was crazy. But because I really knew how to build single page apps that are reactive and I could work with Jan actually on, you know, he gave me just the endpoints that I need to use to get the account and to do the sending the messages and stuff like this, I pulled it off and built like a chat app. And the first time we met in March or April, all together on Amsterdam, we all use the Whisper chat app to talk to each other. Encrypted chat messaging, including groups, including. I added topics. So in a channel you could basically say, I want to talk about a certain topic. And then you could filter by the topic so you could see all messages or you could say, I want to only see this or that topic. And it's the same like threads in Discord, by the way. So I basically made the thread concept of Discord in this tiny app and it worked. And you were connected with your wallet, you know, that was in your node, in your guest stored. And I think, you know, Jeffrey was quite impressed and that kind of gave him some confidence that I can do it. Even though he was trying to, you.

SPEAKER_00: Know.

SPEAKER_01: Prove me wrong or prove himself right. That's not going to work. And what's crazy is we literally built the Mist browser in like three months. We built the first working version and we released it with the mainnet. We released the Ethereum wallet that was July 31, 2015. So basically, six months later, seven months later, we released the first Mist browser version. And it was so crazy because everything needed to be figured out. I needed to learn all how this stuff works. And initially, in the first two months, it felt literally impossible. And I felt like, there's no way I'm going to figure this shit out. Like, there's no way. There was no documentation. It was completely over my head in terms of complexity and shit that I didn't understand at all. But I pulled it off and, and I had to, like, obviously there were people around me that I could talk to, but everybody was also so busy and had to like figure out their own thing, you know, because everything had to be figured out at the time, but I had to literally touch every point. I had to work with the RPC API. And then I saw this thing was kind of messy. Sometimes it was returning hex sometimes it was not returning. So I had to basically I thought I'm a Virgo. So I immediately tried to fix things and make them proper. So I basically immediately wanted to make sure this is proper because when we launch a nodes, this stuff can't change anymore because now once we start Mainnet, you know, you don't want to constantly like make devs stuff unworkable. So I had to fight with Gavin to fix and change the endpoints. And that was quite already like a little bit of a uphill battle, let's say. Then I had to get into Web3js, which Marek was working on with Russell's JavaScript library that, you know, I think Gavin and Jeffrey started and then had to help with him or work together with him initially. And then I really contributed to Web3js because we had to build that into the MIST browser directly. So I was literally the first user of that library and really contributed to that library as well.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: We had to make everything up. The whole foundational stack of Ethereum we made up in this first few months. And you know, because I built the piece that put it all together, like the node, the D apps, the Web3Js, the RPC endpoint, everything into one app. I had to literally touch everything and I had to go to talk to everybody. That was quite challenging, not gonna lie. And. And I also realized that Jeffrey's team and Gavin's team was a little disconnected and they tried to like there was still little like battle and war going on where everybody wanted to be the one who determines which feature and how. And I just realized, guys, if we are doing like this, that shit's going nowhere. You know, if you don't work together and. And it would be too complicated, too much iterations. So I tried to make the team talk, these two teams. But Jeffrey's team, you know, I was part of Jeffrey's team. We were a little bit more open, at least how I felt. Gavin really wanted to kind of keep everybody under a bucket and he didn't want that, that we talked to this team. But I kind of found back back la ways and back channels to make them sync up. I guess Gavin didn't like that, but it was really needed so that eventually they were more starting to work more together and had to do a lot of connecting handholding because I was in this crazy position of being hired by the Amsterdam while sitting in the office of Gavin of this of the Berlin C team. So I was in at the same time as the only person. So I was the connector, you know, I was the translator and the, the method, the connector basically. And I had to deal with all the pieces. So I had to deal with, you know, the C client had to, had to work in, in as a client, in the MIS browser, as the Go client. So I had to talk to people when something was not working. And this crazy how much happened in this first six months before the network start. I mean equally on the network side. Right. Like there was so much just being built and done at the time, but the whole DAPP tech stack was literally made up in this moment, in this time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean I was just looking at the timeline. So September 16th, 2015 is when the first developer preview of Mist went live. I mean saying about with those, with the two teams, I mean I guess you were sort of in the position of being the very first person like building one layer up, you know, I guess all of the prior efforts were just about the clients and you know, and making features available on the clients but not really building things on top of. And specifically not building things on top to try and be able to work with either. So those interface issues and I mean.

SPEAKER_01: To be fair, the first dapps probably were built by Gavin and, and Jeffrey but they used all the clunky half as stuff.

SPEAKER_00: They're only on their own stack. Right.

SPEAKER_01: And then only on their own stack. Yes. I built the first number 1D app browser, like literally generic tool that can run any JavaScript app to connect to the blockchain. And I built it with Alex Ethereum Wallet which was the first ever D app on Ethereum. Like the proper done designed, cross client functional thing. Yeah, that's exactly what we did.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, but yeah, I mean all of that prior stuff, it was just really on their own stack.

SPEAKER_01: A little JavaScript page, talking to their own endpoints.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, right. I mean and looking through old videos. There was one which I think was a talk in London where both Jeff and Gav were sort of talking about the state of Ethereum and demonstrating some things. So this was October 2014 and one of the demos that they had was a one of probably the first onchain decks. So they were. You'd got GavCoin and JeffCoin, you know, this is prior to any standards I guess and GavCoin was written in LLL and JeffCoin was written in Mutan. But they did do an you know an on chain dex order book thing and so putting a transaction for an offer like CPU mining, picking that up, you had got that interop and I guess maybe Some of the Whisper stuff was maybe kind of cross client, but the UI layer.

SPEAKER_01: So for the chat app I mainly used the Go client because the Whisper thing on the C was not fully integrated or working. The initial idea was that the Ethereum client will host all three things. Swarm, Whisper and. And the network. Yeah, obviously that Swarm never really worked in there and, or, and neither Whisper, which then later what got overtaken and supported by status and now it's transferred into a whole different protocol. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean this was really like foundational times and, and I think what people really like often misunderstand is how much number one, Ethereum was generic from day one. Number two, how many ideas were already present. If you watch the miss Browser video from Alex, like we haven't even built half of this stuff that's in that video and in fact a lot of these foundations are missing. And for example now I'm working on universal profiles across smart contract system and that's even in the, in the video already in there. Like you don't see wallets, you see profiles, you see people doing stuff. And only now, literally 10 plus years later, we now have the foundation and it's not even widely used yet. That even makes that miss Video more realistic. And yeah, Alex came up with all of these ideas. This is just what was around at the time. Even like right after Bitcoin became got attention in 2013 and 2010, these ideas were already around like how can you build decentralized Uber and decentralized this and decentralized that and Dex and whatever. And it's just people think this stuff was. Stuff came online 2017, 2020 and this is somehow like an invention of the Ethereum foundation making shit up. This stuff is all like, it has been around for ages when it comes to this stuff actually.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean you had that sort of cryptocurrency 2.0 phase at the start there, you know, talking about Master Coin and things, you know, that I guess there was a thought that, you know, everything will get built on Bitcoin. You know, that was the initial thing. And yes, you've got these old coins and experiments and other things and you.

SPEAKER_01: Know.

SPEAKER_00: Come back together or even, you know, prior to Bitcoin, you know, because Bitcoin itself was just sort of a manifestation of digital cash streams that had gone back for decades with, with the cipher punks. And then you'd got things like BitTorrent. You know, you did have decentralized messaging things.

SPEAKER_01: And so on. Yes, I mean like, I mean I was yeah, it's, it's, it's basically, it's interesting. Back in the day was all Reddit, right? Bitcoin, like all, like today it's crypto. Twitter, back in the day was Bitcoin. Reddit or Reddit are Bitcoin. And Ethereum was their first kind of real challenger to the status quo. And it split the community into the bitcoin maximalist, the camp that says, no, we only need bitcoin, why the heck you want any other chain? And then the people. And even if my friends circled and friends developers, some literally never made the move. They never looked into Ethereum stack just because they felt that, what do you care? Bitcoin is all you need. And I just visited a bitcoin meetup recently and I was so taken back because it was like walking into like, you know, some kind of like a time portal back into the time 10, 10 years back, same discussions, same problems, same people, same size of groups and, and you're suddenly back in some kind of time capsule of the past where the topics they talk about is just like, you know, minor this, minor that, and basic stuff of that has been figured out like a hundred times already on Ethereum, like being full impressive discussions here and very few developers, which is also very impressive. Like how such a network that has so much attention, so much money in it, literally just developed by 100 people and maybe not even.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I mean, speaking for myself, you know, I was aware of Bitcoin for a good number of years before I had sort of any involvement in the crypto space. But there were sort of two reasons, I guess I wasn't interested, or maybe three, which was, firstly, I was a gold bug and I was a software engineer and I know how terrible most software is. So like some dude you've never heard of has made like magic Internet money. Like, come on. But I think more importantly, it was just kind of boring to me because, okay, you can do payments. Okay, well, there you go. Well, that's not very interesting versus here's a platform and you can build apps. That was like, oh, that's, that's, that's kind of interesting. And you know, maybe you had a fairly similar.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean, for me the money part was. I mean, obviously it's cool, like to invest in something that like, you know, feel is going up and it makes the money. And obviously I had no money as a student here. My parents are not rich or anything, but it's just so powerful. The idea that there is a technology that you can no one can control that sits above the law, that sits above the influence of humans. Because you can't break a system that's based on consensus. And like a Hydra has 100,000 heads. And it's just. Oh, it's just really. It was fascinating. Yeah, no, I was really. Yeah. I mean I'm still am, you know, here I am building still on this tank, super pumped about the next phase of this whole technology. But I just never thought it would take that long, to be honest.

SPEAKER_00: No, no. So I mean you were working from the Berlin office, but presumably you, you know, you were back and forth to Amsterdam sometimes, rarely.

SPEAKER_01: I mean the Amsterdam office we were there maybe like twice or so like on the end. The Amsterdam office was really more like a legal hub and there was obviously Jeffrey and the operations personal assistant that he had and like we were all over the place. So I worked with Alex mainly who was literally three to or five hours ahead behind in Brazil. In Rio later we hired multiple people. We hired another person from Rio actually. Right. Two other person from Rio. At some point we were three people in the team. Four people in the team. Even if I remember at the peak. But then I also worked on web3js so I worked with Marek closely, was in the Berlin office. I talked and worked with Christian a lot who worked on Solidity was also in the Berlin office. And obviously Jan and the other girl that worked on the remix Left Terrace was sitting across me in the Berlin office. Christoph Jensch came to the Berlin office frequently. So. Oh guy. Right. But he was more like hired as a kind of contractor to do testing, testing scenarios for the nodes. So he wrote all these kind of tests to test all kind of inputs and outputs of or whatever node behavior. I don't remember exactly.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Cross client, make sure this all functions correctly. And at the same time the Ethereum hub, I call it the Ethereum hub. It was never meant to be a hub but it. It functioned as the main go to place if you want to visit Ethereum. The Berlin office was the place there was the most people there. And it just really also happened that just people showed up. So Dominic Williams just showed up before he. People that I met that like really became friends. Gustav who built a keyman, key manager implementation and go Ethereum. Felix, the guy who built still today the network layer, he was also in the office in Berlin. Literally lived across. Yeah, yeah. And there's a lot of. There was like a happen. I was one of the more social developers inside group. So when somebody walked into the Office. It was mostly kind of me talking to that person because the others just like behaved like they didn't know what to do. Like they just literally didn't. And there was no secretary person or anything really. So I just talked to most of the people and I also, what I was working on, you know, working on the front end, working on the developer stack. I was kind of like a little bit like, you know, on the layer to the outside compared to the people working on the protocols in the inside. So that also kind of reflected socially.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. So you missed out on DEFCON 0 because you, you started just after that. But you will have been to London for Devcon1 in November of 2015 then?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I was.

SPEAKER_00: Token standards were just kind of beginning. The EIP process was just starting. So I mean I guess that's sort of like phase two, right Is your first one is building a thing and touching everything and then you're starting to get up to that on chain token layers. How did all that kind of grew up.

SPEAKER_01: So I mean the whole standardization for me started when Vitaly created the GitHub Wiki page because he wanted to standardize tokens, ENS kind of registry and maybe an early version of a dex, I don't remember. And he just like we had some discussion around the GitHub page, literally a GitHub Docs page. And he made the early version of ERC20 and we debated a little bit on there on, on, on, on mainly like you know, Skype and some comments on, on this page. And then yes, and then London happened and so what happened is it's actually funny because there was this, there was a panel, the panel about standardization. So I presented a lot of things there. I presented the MIST browser. Yeah, I think a presented to Ms. Browser, maybe something else. But I was also on this panel about standardization and fun fact, we discussed, I watched it the other day and we discussed, you know, standards like. And there was two main discussions. Oh, should we put metadata into the contract directly in this case the idea was do we put the metadata of a token like token name and simple into the contract or do we create a registry for it?

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: And in a way that's kind of also today still the big split, you know, do you put information into a registry like ENS or do you put it into the user owned contract itself or do you make a registry for AI or do you put the metadata in the account of the AI itself? And it's still. And it's going to be another discussion because coming fun Enough. And we literally discussed this and it's actually what is what's funny? When I looked at this, I. I literally said they are every. They ask us what are you interested in? In standardization. And I said, you know the account system, I called it proxy contract because there was no notion of an account. But I called it a proxy connect was actually my main interest. Funny enough, I later created ERC 7 to 5 and now, you know, the profiles as the fulfillment of that. But it's kind of funny that was even sparked there already. I talked about key management at the time and we didn't even propose the ASC 20. It's kind of nice. So. But in this conversation, Martin BC before created the EIP repository and I think Gavin or whatever mentioned like where do we do the standardization? And I think he mentioned in that very thing, yeah, we have the EIP repository. That would be the right place. And I think that inspired me in this moment, like, oh yeah, actually we could put it there. So that's when I then created this, the issue number 20. And I, I think I recall the Ethereum request for comment because of the request for comment thing. You know, I came up with the name by myself or whoever came up with the name. But I created the issue and I formatted this whole discussion that we had there like a current version in a proper specification because I felt number one, we need to involve the community. Like if you want to have a consensus around the token standard, right. Everybody needs to listen and have at least an insight. And second, it needs to be in a structured way where not everybody like randomly edits like this file. This is actually the second comment that Gavin made. Funny enough, editing we all laughed about editing was on that one wiki file. Yeah, in a way like I, I then structured the process through that and incredible. USA 20 as a proposal I made a few changes that it's like just like some file, like some turning around like the transfer function, what's first value, blah blah blah blah or amount or whatever. And then we had a discussion, but we didn't really change much anymore. And yeah, so we discussed there around 60 people in total, 300 comments. But pretty much after quite a while already everybody kind of felt more or less that this makes sense. The big discussions was around authorized operator or not, should we have it or not. I was kind of against it. So fun fact, when I create the first test coin, the MIST coin that I used then to test in the MIST browser, the authorized operator functions because I didn't like it. I really like More the idea of informing recipients. But it was also too early to do that because we had no idea of the side effects of that. In my test coin, I just didn't add the authorized operator. I didn't see a need for fun fact. Later people picked up the miscoin like as a collectible meme token collectible coin. And because it was a real ERC20 but because it doesn't have the authorized operator function, it didn't work in Uniswap. So they wrapped it. And that's why it's now wrapped Miss Coin, which is the wrap real miss Coin inside a token that has the function to interact with Dex. But this was just a test token. It was never meant to. I just over the years gave a bunch of those to random people who asked me until like a whole group of people like really wanted to make this valuable. And now it's traded. I mean now it has a market cap and people trade it and is what it is. I mean it's the first year, so 20. I mean it's not the first first. I think there was a preliminary version that Vitalik built before that that was. Yeah. Not very functional or standardized. And this was like the first one that kind of fit the spec except the operator stuff.

SPEAKER_00: There's. So there's a deployment of that out which was launched I believe by R. Ficcy based on that on Vitalik's, you know, repo or what have you there. That's called currency coin is. Is what that one is called. But again another. They call these relic tokens. Relic coins. Yes.

SPEAKER_01: You know, like.

SPEAKER_00: Like I'm doing sort of human social history. There are people doing on chain history of, you know, what was the first instance.

SPEAKER_01: It's also the crazy thing is, you know, this stuff is around. The transaction is around, the code is still around. It's like a relic. And it's like it. It's provable. The thing. And the fun fact is I deployed that I think a week before I actually proposed to ERC20 spec.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: I felt we were kind of more or less and it was probably around the time of def. This first DEFCON I might have. We can even check if it was before this DEFCON or after or I don't remember. Probably maybe a day or two before that I deployed that thing. I think we also. Yes. We also needed it for testing or showing something. I don't remember. I mean. Yeah, we needed to test, you know, like. Like how could tokens work in there or whatever. But it's really yeah. Anyway, that's how it.

SPEAKER_00: It may well have been for the. For the DEFCON 1 demo for your presentation.

SPEAKER_01: No, I mean, we did it for. I mean, yes, the DEFCON did really, like, you know, push us a lot to get some features done and some things done. The token was not yet in there, really, because the token thing was still kind of very out there. Like, also, no one really had. I mean, we all knew that people want to make tokens, and that's why, kind of like, you know, Vitalik started this because I think he felt an urgency from the community. But it was not of anybody's mind that now tokens need to be, like, a primary focus. It was just like, hey, I want to do it. Let's do it. The wallet was not really meant to immediately be super supportive of that. I mean, except that I created the test coin for that and we played around, but it was not an urgency. That just really didn't happen after this. Then here's the trendy then kicked off the ICO wave, and that's when everything went completely bananas.

SPEAKER_00: And, I mean, I'm guessing, you know that ERC20 standard, you had no idea that it would have so much sticking power.

SPEAKER_01: No. I mean, no one could. I guess no one could. I mean, I knew people needed it. I knew it's going to be a thing that people will do, because already on MasterCard before there was colored coins, the concept of creating other currencies on top of the Bitcoin blockchain, and they call it color coins, so there was clearly a need for it. But I found the idea of just creating random tokens for random stuff kind of boring, because for me, then it's like, okay, what is the value of this? Why would you create a token? And honestly, if you look back and if you look today, most tokens don't make fucking sense, right? There was so much unnecessary tokens that just make no sense and had no purpose. And I was always a big fan of a native currency, because our native blockchain token, because that thing makes sense, you remove it, the network doesn't work. There's no way you remove that token, at least right now, and the network still is functional and economically viable and secure. But with all the other tokens, that was not the case.

SPEAKER_00: I guess it's just sort of like the simplest thing you could do. It's like, okay, well, what can you do? Well, hey, look, you can make new tokens, so there's no need to make new chains and find new miners, right? You can Just float it on Ethereum. So it's like a simple thing, but it's like, okay, here's the very first sort of thing. It's not very interesting, but we've done something.

SPEAKER_01: The thing is, what people don't really realize how much more we were thinking ahead of, like, hey, wow, we can do really cool, how we can really change society with this technology. That. That was actually more interesting to people working in Ethereum than thinking how to make a token and how to like, like the whole Dex Defi stuff that mainly came from the outside too. It was other people that just saw an opportunity to make money or financial Lego, whatever. And. But internally I. There were not a lot of people who got very excited about this, honestly. I mean, as far as I remember, or maybe that was at least my perspective.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So, I mean, DEFCON 1 also, then more speculation, right? And more speculation is not necessarily good, specifically in an environment in the early days where the regular regulatory insecurity and uncertainty was just so high. So the last thing we all wanted is now every eyes on us because we're trying to compete with banks. So I think actually made us all a little uncomfortable. At least that's how I felt about it and how I think other people saw it too. It's just the outside world like immediately jumped on it and said, yeah, money, money, money, money, you know, and that was not the point of the technology in the first place, actually.

SPEAKER_00: No, no, I mean, I, I sort of remember at the time thinking, you know, that's one of the least interesting parts is like, you know, okay, yeah, you can have that raw speculation, but it's like there's nothing new versus going well, what are all these new things that we can build? And. And.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly, exactly. Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, I mean, DEFCON 1, I think, was quite seminal in terms of, like, bringing together like most people for the first time in the DEFCON 0 being this internal event. But, you know, DEFCON 1 was. It was like the first public Ethereum conference. I sadly did not get to go. I. I could not afford to go.

SPEAKER_01: But.

SPEAKER_00: But what are your memories at that time? I mean, you must have seen so many things and so many people and.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so I have actually been in. And I think I have been in every DEFCON so far except zero, which was only 20 people in Berlin. And I was not at the DevConnect in. In Istanbul.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Apart from that, I was at every defcon. I was always speaking at the first few defcons. But then the moment I was not at the foundation anymore and doing another blockchain, then you're like, oh, outcast. You know, and yeah, it's, yeah, it is. It is what it is. So even though the tech I'm building now and the tech I've been also building over the years is extremely relevant to Ethereum, the ecosystem as well, but somehow also the people who picked them, the talks and so on in the later years, they are fresh. Some of them literally don't even know the history. So that's why actually the work that you're doing is really important because you are the archivist of Ethereum and you really, with that hold up the truth story and the participants and the contributions and make that visible and transparent to people. Because I have talked to so many people and they have barely any idea of how Ethereum came to be, who contributed, who did what. It's like completely unknown. People just came in in 2017 for ICOs, 2020 for ICOs and DeFi, 2022 for NFTs. And for them Ethereum is just one chain. There's all the other chains and they do AMAs and Ethereum doesn't do AMAs. And it's all a big show, honestly. So it's good that the work that you're doing, like kind of a. Because. And there's so many contributors that have not gotten the recognition that they deserve. For example, in my opinion, it's a great example. That dude literally built the, and is building still the communication layer of the Ethereum network and how the nodes talk to each other. And he has done that without frame our attention for years and.

SPEAKER_00: Sorry, Felix Lang.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, Felix Lang, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. I mean, I, I spoke to him in, in, in Buenos Aires and the funny thing is he like, he's such a humble guy, you know. You know, he was saying to me, you know, I really don't like early days of Ethereum, you know, I don't, you know, I don't want, you know, don't want the attention. You know, like I was saying to him, you know, like, you're, you're like the longest serving person at the ef, I think after, after Vitalik.

SPEAKER_01: And he's like, that's true.

SPEAKER_00: You know, he's like, I'm just like a janitor, you know, I'm, I just turn up and I maintain the thing and I, you know, I don't, I don't, I don't want any of that focus. I don't like any of that. It was just like a job for me, you know.

SPEAKER_01: Like really great. I mean Felix is specifically crazy and I think there's a little self punishment, but he didn't even buy any ether, you know, at all. So I literally. And because I thought like, what the are you doing? I mean this is likely, I mean I knew this is going to go big just because I knew this is such a revolutionary technology. And, and I just, and I couldn't barely afford any, but, but I thought the guy has none. He said, yeah, if I don't have a use for ether, if I don't want to build an app, why would I need some? And it's like, and I thought, like, that's kind of stupid. I mean, I mean, because you investing your energy and time here, like you should have at least some reward. And what people don't understand, most people that worked at Ethereum didn't care about the money or an investment. Neither did I. I mean that was not the reason why we joined. We joined because it was truly, and it is truly a game changing revolutionary technology. But so what I did is I donated some to him and I made everybody in the team donate some to him. So at least he got like, I don't know, 100 ether or whatever. I don't know if he kept it or not. I mean, I guess he did. And I even made Jeffrey give some and Jeffrey gave almost the same amount like us. I mean we had barely any, but Jeffrey has a fuckload. It was so weird. Like, dude, Jeffrey, you can give a little more. I found it a little schnauzer. Yeah, I literally forced him to his visa, basically.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I think the thing that a lot of newer people, you know, don't comprehend is how little that like money or whatever was a motivation at all for many of the people, you know, it was really about, well, what, what can you build and what, what can we, you know, what can happen? You know, like there was no certainty whatsoever that it was even going to work, it was even going to launch, but it was even going to have any kind of, you know, success. It was like, you know, maybe this can think can happen. You know, it would be great if it could. Like, let's try. But, but you know, this money was.

SPEAKER_01: Never, the money was never the intention of no one that I, I mean obviously we, some of us felt, I mean, that this can be big, but we had no idea. And at the same there was bitcoin rising and obviously, you know, bitcoin had a lot more traction and bitcoin was more of a safe bet. Ethereum was A complete gamble. And then. And when I, you know, donated this, this ether also, people say, well, he gave him 100 ether. I don't know what he. How much he on the end got, but it was like, I don't know, the whole thing was 300 or 400. It was nothing. Like, it cost literally 40, 50, 60 cents. And. And like, it's not. It was not 3,000 nor $10, not 20. No, it was literally nothing. It was a few hundred dollars and it was all. And we had all like, you know, 10, 20 ether on some wallets laying around just for building stuff. I hope I could find some of those again. But all these keys were ephemeral and some code base maybe, or maybe not. Whatever. Yeah, nobody cared really, actually, to be honest. Not the. Not of the people who worked internally, but from the outside, they all thought it. We all just did it for making this thing, you know, big and get rich. It was weird, you know, the perception the outside is sometimes really, like, distorted.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, you know, talking to that ICO and, you know, that monetary speculation. I mean, I remember at the time, you know, almost being sort of like, repulsed at that, you know, that speculative thing and. And especially the projection of that mindset onto the people that were actually building and saying, oh, you know, you guys.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, you're just doing this to grow it. Exactly.

SPEAKER_00: You're just giving yourself the money. You know, it's just like, who needs smart contracts? You know, it's all a scam.

SPEAKER_01: Look at you guys.

SPEAKER_00: You know, and also, I think also the assumption, oh, you're all massively rich. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I mean.

SPEAKER_00: You know, Felix, thing of not having any f. That was. That was me as well. And the reason why is because I haven't got any money. I haven't got, like, I was impoverishing myself even being involved. You know, I was just volunteering for a very long time, like, with nothing. Then, even when I got hired at the foundation, I was getting paid 60k a year, which is like half of what my prior salary had been. It was not.

SPEAKER_01: And also, I mean, same for me. My salary at a foundation was 60k. And only towards the end, when we had a little bit of success, I negotiated it up to 90k. And that was before tax. And same with the ether. It's like, everybody thinks, yeah, if you got ether back then, you must be insanely rich. It's like, dude, like, when that hit $10, we all thought we made. We made it to the universe, you know, and like, now you cash out Like a few hundred thousand and you think you'll be super rich. Same with also some of the early people who had a lot more ether. I mean they cashed out a hundred thousand ether for I don't know, a dollar. Right. Because they thought this is really high. Yeah. I mean barely anybody that I know held it until it hit a few hundred and thousand of dollars. And people don't understand. They were 10 plus years or now 10 years and they were like 5 plus years passing with many ups and downs and bubbles. Yeah, obviously. I mean I have no ether anymore since many, many years. I mean I spent them all and you know, my ex wife has a few more ideas of what you wanted to have it on and then bought a house that now belongs to the parents of her and stuff. Just like when, when. And then you know, obviously I'm working on Luxo and a lot of my money went all into supporting that now. Yeah. So the idea that like, I mean if I would have held everything that I had, sure, that would be a lot of money. But that means you literally not spending any money during all the years and you only live with salary. And second, you literally trust so much that this is going to be worth a lot. And yeah, it's impossible, like barely anyone. It's such a nice thinking. Honestly.

SPEAKER_00: It's this sort of impossible fantasy of saying, you know, assuming that, yeah, you're gonna sit and you're not gonna, you're gonna say, okay, it's 100x. No, no, no, it's a thousandx.

SPEAKER_01: Keep going. I know 10,000% is possible. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So I mean, going back to DEFCON 1, I was looking at some of the videos recently and it's like pretty much any idea you can ever imagine seem to be presented there. I mean did, did you see most of the presentations?

SPEAKER_01: I mean this is the thing most people don't understand like this that people talk about right now is not being made up. Now that stuff has been made up before, tried before. For example, bas like launches launched the defeated and now cut off again. Right. Like where you have a post and then you people bet on this. I mean Steam, it did that four years ago and at least they did it smart because it wasn't a Reddit style feature.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Where Reddit like posts stay longer. Right. They have more value over time while posts that literally disappear after scrolling a page, it's not worth betting on them. That's fucking scamming people. Right. It's none of that stuff we see is new. And what is fascinating to Me is that the spirit space today is still built more or less on the same foundations in the ba on the basis, if you go to the bottom of the bottom, it's the same foundations that we literally made up in the first six months and the first year of Ethereum. It's same, same provider. Now there's a bit of different way how it's injected, same provider, how your D app connects to the node, same RPC endpoints, pretty much not too much added here either. EOAs have been the default since back then. And fun fact, Jeffrey told me, you guys should not expose the public key or the public key, the EOA to the user. You should use a smart contract account. And that stuck with me. And he was right. But it was so early with no idea. I mean, we tried to barely figure out how to make any transaction work for that matter. And now think about routing this through a smart contract. That was just absurd, but he was right. And now in all these years, that's what I built. Now I built exactly that kind of foundation that we discussed back in the day and that we wanted back in the day. But it took all of this learning and all of this, and in fact it also took me stepping outside, out of the Ethereum ecosystem, creating a different standards track in order to even do that. Because when you just do that in this existing ecosystem, with the existing standards debates, it's just so slow. And you, you, you need to be backwards compatible, you need to think in ways that you just move the current wagon along because if you want to make radical changes, you have so many people that will just try to either intervene or move it around and shift around and it goes nowhere. So I needed to do that in a kind of different approach. Kind of funny enough, you know, I kind of coined the ERC request for common standard space to then go off and create the Luxo standards proposals and do it there, even though it adjusts Ethereum standards too, just so that it could do it right. And it's going to show that video will be obviously on the Internet. So let's see, in a few months, in a year from now, and it will show that that was the necessary approach to evolve.

SPEAKER_00: So I mean, you were at the EF working on mist through to 2017.

SPEAKER_01: No, August 2018, 2008. 2018 18.

SPEAKER_00: So what further work happened in this between that very first release and the sun setting? I mean, what was that?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so my work was not only in the MIST browser, so I actually worked for three and a half years at Ethereum and then in the later years I really started working more on the developer tools. I mean, I overtook web3js, which was the main JavaScript library at the time. When Marek left with Gavin to join parity or eth core, I overtook web3js, so that I mainly maintained this library. I built the Web 2.2.0 version of it. That was the last thing I did before I left releasing the 2.0 version of that app or that library. And I kind of stepped in the last year I stepped a little out of the Mist team. I mean I was just focused on the other things more. But I was still like kind of the main developer in Mist. But now there was more maintenance. The thing is, we really tried to create more of a. That the Mist browser, it was quite complicated because we were always lagging behind Chromium and Electron Test. So Electron Jazz use Chromium. Chromium is what we then used. And so if there was a bug or something like this in Chromium, it needed to first be supported by Electron Jazz before we could support this. So there was quite a cycle. We worked a lot on the interface on the end like the Ethereum Wallet or people called it the Mist Wallet was basically the main thing ever really used. People never really fully used it as a Web3 browser, but we built all kind of features in there. I built things in there that an app could set notifications on the sidebar. And so there's a lot of features that we added to the browser that were never really fully used. Just because the moment the biggest problem for the Myth browser, and in a way the death of the Myth browser was the slow syncing of the Ethereum nodes.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And because we wanted to do it the full decentralized way, we didn't just wanted to talk to a backend node that someone hosted. And also the Ethereum foundation probably wouldn't have paid for a node hosted on a server for everyone else to connect to.

SPEAKER_00: So I completely believe that there's so much peeping out on costs.

SPEAKER_01: It would have been so easy to instead of talking to the local host node to talk to remote node. I mean I could have added a feature. No time. The reason because we didn't do this, because it really just went against the whole idea of really doing it decentralized. The only problem is that then after six, seven, eight months, syncing the Mist browser, if you didn't have it open for a week, took sometimes half an hour. And plus what happened is Metamask Kumarvis came up with the idea, okay, I build a browser extension, connect into a remote node, and I do a light version of MetaMask and just inject it into an existing browser. And that idea won. So MetaMask kind of in a way outcompeted the Mist browser. And then on top of this, you know, the difficulties of keeping it secure is on the end what made us shut it down, but that we had a lot more ideas. I mean, look at the video. Like we haven't even started. We hadn't even really started playing out the idea of the MIST browser fully. But at the time it was just not, it was not the right time. But it really showed a lot of people how things can be done, why to do it this way, how to build the apps, how to, you know. Yeah, it set the stage, basically.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, in terms of that, you know, local, local node, full decentralization. I mean, I remember as well thinking, yeah, of course that's going to happen, right? Of course you're going to like, everyone's going to have an Ethereum node running like on every device, you know, be like, yeah, you'll have one running in the background on your phone. They'll be in like every router, media station, like every computer.

SPEAKER_01: Also, there was the idea of the Light clients, you know, and we knew there were Light clients coming and we really bet on the fact that the Light client will solve that problem. Yeah, the only problem is the Light client never, never came, or it came, but it was not cross client and it didn't really fully work. So we hoped a lot on the Light client. This was why we kept doing it this way, because the idea was once we have the Light client, the things.

SPEAKER_00: Like this, we'll just build on the full node, build down the full node for now, and then that Light client will come in.

SPEAKER_01: And I think we actually came that far. I think there was versions of the MIST browser that had Guest built in with Light client support that synced very fast. But at the time, by this time, people already really moved on to MetaMask. And again, security and other reasons on the end made us kind of give up. But I already moved on to Web3js at the time, mainly with my focus, because that was indeed a tool. Everybody was using it. 70 million, 140 million downloads, or God knows what it has nowadays. It still used download a lot, even though now VM and others took over. And then at some point it was only mainly like then. Yeah, when I left, then at some point, Alex, shut it down for the reasons also because. Yeah, I mean it had, it had its purpose, you know.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: By the way, the idea of the MIST browser is still a very valid idea. And in fact, you know, what I'm building now is a cross. It's like a MIS browser mobile. Which is actually interesting because what I'm building now is almost like a full circle. I introduced a smart contract account, the same like Jeffrey said, we should do it. That's the foundation of your access to Web3. And then you have a web browser in an app that allows you to interact with dapps easily while doing it in a human focused way. So not wallet focused way, but profile focused way, safe way, easy gas in a way that literally works for humans. Which was also by the way the idea of the MIS browser. It was not to be meant for nerds and techies. It was meant to be normal people interacting with this new technology. Right. That was the whole point. And this is going to come now with the universal profile app as kind of like a MIS browser on mobile in its first version.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean, you know, the goal being not just to sort of replicate existing applications but on the blockchain, but to enable these things that like weren't possible before. Right. Having this, this hub, integrating all of these different pieces of your life, that was like real utility.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly. And what's actually interesting, and that's really, for me the most surprising thing is, is we are 10 plus years into Ethereum.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And there's so many networks, EVM apps, the most ones are very financial focused which is also something that really me turn turned me then off. So the moment defi happened I thought like that's just a big gamble park. I mean it's important protocols, they're really important. But it just became such a gamble park and casino. That was just really turning me off. But what's interesting is we go to conferences, you know, we go to any place you can go in the world and you meet web3people and no one is using web3apps. Like literally like you have some. Obviously people have wallets and maybe they're purchasing a coin here and there. But the more like interacting with actual apps, like voting on something, joining a community, giving reputation, doing all the things you could do on chain. It doesn't happen. And honestly that for me is something I would never have thought. If somebody would have told me in 2015 or 16 or 17 that in 10 years there's still no actual users using the apps, I would have thought like number one, if that happens It's a total fail. Yeah. And number two, there's no way this has happened. This is the through like that. What are the chances? And here we are. It's crazy.

SPEAKER_00: I remember in 2018, I went to the consensus conference, like the consensus, not consensus conference in New York. So New York Blockchain Week. And there was a panel there that was sort of almost like a bitcoin versus Ethereum thing. And you have Jimmy Song, you know, the. With his cowboy hat. And you had Joe Lubin. And Jimmy was basically saying, you know, like, daps are, you know, useless. Smart contracts are useless. Like, nobody's going to be like, using these in five years. And like him and Joe having a bet, you know, for a pretty significant amount of. Of bitcoin.