SPEAKER_02: Hello, hello.

SPEAKER_00: Hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So we are here. We are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague. Dark Prague, the inaugural Dark Prague Zero Congress, conference, I'm not quite sure what you'd call it. But yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of this early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. And one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two EMEAs that you had: capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, you know, before all that started, even you know how did you... Yeah, how come you're doing this project? How come I'm doing it? Yeah, um, well, it it was quite, I mean, it was quite coincidental, you know. I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik what I could do to help with the transition or whatever. And he said, can you go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be? Like, what should we be doing?

SPEAKER_02: Oh dear, if you ask that question, it's already a bad sign.

SPEAKER_00: Well, my question at that point was, so Ming was terrible. She was one of the least professional people I've ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well, what the hell was happening before that, that she looked like a good choice. And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so like, there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as like, was Charles like kind of a co-founder or not? He kind of says he was maybe, but maybe he wasn't. Which is just crazy because, you know, he was there, like, doing videos and, like, there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into that stuff.

SPEAKER_02: What about Anthony Di Iorio as well?

SPEAKER_00: Anthony Di Iorio, yes, that's right.

SPEAKER_02: Didn't he get rocked or something?

SPEAKER_00: There was Anthony Di Iorio. There was Anthony D'Onofrio that was Texture. And there was another guy called Anthony Euphamio who did this Digix Gold thing. But anyway, that's where I started getting interested in Ethereum history. It's just like, well, what the hell happened? I mean, what ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely... a disaster. You know, Ming went and he just got Aya here you go it's a new one no changes like the the what people wanted was like transparency they wanted community input they wanted like professional executive like operational it's like you know let's have organization to help the devs basically um but primarily it was like don't be a swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all anyway so i put the stuff aside at that point it's like great that was a good use of my time you know advising the millionaire for free for months um but then just recently um So the guys I now work with, they started recording some videos because, so Kieren is, Kieren James-Lubin is Joe's son. So he was actually around from March 2014 and the others were sort of involved from 2015 and they were just like, we should like, get some of these memories down, right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and I really loved them and I was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this. And then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Goering and with Texture. And just tons of stuff came out of that. And then I just kind of like shoved those together. And there you go. That's early days of Ethereum is this sort of combination of sort of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles. And then, you know, conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like this is history, right?

SPEAKER_02: This stuff was crazy seeing being in crypto since like you know almost the beginning and seeing the stuff that happens but seeing what got recorded right and it's like wow like history really is just written by the victors yeah it's just it's crazy

SPEAKER_00: So the one thing on that score, which I don't know if you know, is so the original Bitcoin Talk post for announcing Ethereum, so that was done on the 23rd of January 2014, right, just before the Bitcoin Miami. That page got changed. Oh, what the fuck? About eight months later, probably around August, September, it got it got quick edited. And a whole load of people that were there got written out.

SPEAKER_02: But what about the people getting deleted and stuff?

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out by who the admins? Well, by Vitalik, I imagine.

SPEAKER_02: But how do you edit people out of your thread?

SPEAKER_00: No, no. The original post said, hey, we're Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is the team. This is what we're doing. So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to, oh, right, Charles and Amir. Well, Amir, I don't think, was in the original post because he didn't want to be. But Charles got edited out. Stefan and Taylor Goering got edited in and all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah. But, you know, many, many people that were involved early, you know, they're just like forgotten. You know, they were on, you know, if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, I mean, some people... Like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. You know, these pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen as, you know, this is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn't know. Like, you know, just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said, like, Ryan Taylor Webb. I don't know who Ryan Taylor is. Like, so a number of these names, you know, I don't know who they are or maybe start to find them. And basically, you know, it's like the work of many hands, right? This is something I was talking about is, you know, you've got, like, great man theory, right? The thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of, you know, intellectual skills and power of force that they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that's kind of the story that people like.

SPEAKER_02: It's kind of like feudalism. It's like... You pledge your allegiance to his liege.

SPEAKER_00: That's right.

SPEAKER_02: And if your liege becomes popular, you will gain through him. You will live vicariously.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: That's how the tech world operates.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well, you know, like people are looking for heroes and, you know, they're champions to cheer. You know, in the highest case, you know, something like North Korea, they literally think the leader is, you know, is a god. You know, they're just crying in front of him, just... Wow, that's amazing. So, yeah, I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost, right? So many things have already been lost.

SPEAKER_02: Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin. Right. He did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. So... You should check him out as well. Yeah. So, yeah, I'm finding stuff. And, you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. You seem to have a reasonable number of artefacts of various ages that have been preserved about you.

SPEAKER_02: It's funny because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page.

SPEAKER_00: Right. It's funny. There's a guy called Freddie Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main kind of like, it was like Bitcoin co-working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things. Basically, even though it's like as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep, loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything. They've all got lost and fucked. I've just posted shit on my Facebook page and it's, you know, it's up there forever. Obviously like preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, like so much stuff is just like rotted because people have deleted their accounts or like a platform isn't around anymore or just, you know, general, general kind of rot. But, uh,

SPEAKER_02: Everything I have that's survived is because I uploaded it to a normie platform. Yes, this is it. I periodically have a cleansing. It's not accidental, but it's just like every few years, your data just resets to zero. I don't know, it sucks, but you know.

SPEAKER_00: Well, that's it. Yeah. I mean, so yeah, that was Freddie's super normie story is still using Facebook even though, you know, it's Facebook. So, yeah, I mean, you know, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early Bitcoin dev. So how did you find Bitcoin?

SPEAKER_02: So I was working on free software for five, six years. And then I became a professional poker player.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: That was for over two years. And the poker sites, you know, you're playing against other players. Right. But the way the sites operate, the platform, they take a cut. Out of every pot, basically, every game that you play. Right. But the sites charge a huge amount of fees for a really crappy service. So I had this idea, what if you could have a P2P site, then it wouldn't have rake and fees. Right. So I had like the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho-hackers, I know. And I was telling them about that. And this guy is like a mathematician that worked for the W3C. His name's Melvin. He dumped just like 10 links in there. And they're like random open source projects for money. And there's stuff like Letts. Have you heard of Letts? No, no. At one point, people were really into that. But it's like... You but off I think it's like offering your labor you get like a token or something but anyway so I would say going through one of all of these links and they're going no no no no I saw Bitcoin I opened the page for Bitcoin it goes bitcoin is a foot is a p2p currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks and i was like that's garbage like obviously not that's just because there's like loads of random projects like that on the source forge back in the day like i once saw like a jurassic park video game and it was going like you could do everything you can punch through the walls you can hack the terminals you can hunt the dinosaurs and i like i was like whoa sounds amazing and i checked the code and it said like main.cpp and they had like just you know like one file yeah like it just got it got bored of it it like got it just wrote the idea right right and then i kept checking months every so often and And there was like zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was like one of those kind of projects. I went, no, no, no. And then I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then. And so then when it came to Bitcoin one, I downloaded the source code. And I started going through the source code. And I was like, oh, that's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15,000 lines of code at that time. Which... you know, 15,000 lines of code, it's actually a small amount of lines of code. Like some programmers can even do that in like a week or something like very talented programmers. But so I was like, oh, but it's not nothing either. It's not like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So it's like 20, you know, 15,000 lines of code like less.

SPEAKER_00: You can read through and kind of understand that pretty well.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, so I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: You know, it's like my pornography that I'm looking at. I started studying it.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm going to work on this.

SPEAKER_00: So what month do you think that was?

SPEAKER_02: That was the summer of 2010. Right. So that's when I, like, basically, I was like, okay, I'm just doing this from now on. And so then I had, like, I made, like, a plan of, like, oh, in 10 years we'll be here, et cetera.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: Because this is like a long-term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. It just started growing massively. So it was pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin. I started writing code. I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was listed on Bitcoin.org. But that page is gone from the internet. So people, it's like, they don't like that.

SPEAKER_00: Maybe it got archived.

SPEAKER_02: No, I don't think so.

SPEAKER_00: No, just gone.

SPEAKER_02: No, I don't think so.

SPEAKER_00: No, just gone.

SPEAKER_02: Bitcoin web page with the list of names. Right. So I had a war with Gavin Andresen. Yeah. Because he was like, he's a motherfucker in many ways. But basically, he really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He's a statist. And he's into the banks and stuff. But also, he was just not that good a dev. And when there was other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was instead trying to push them out and try and keep control. So I became his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy.

SPEAKER_00: And then he kind of seemed like he never wanted the role. Even he just sort of got kind of locked into it.

SPEAKER_02: And then he was there and he's like, I want to keep it. I really like it. I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to audience of bankers. And so I did my talk and afterwards Gavin Andresen DM'd me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the fuck is this guy? You're not in charge of your project. Fuck you.

SPEAKER_00: Was this in London or in the US? Amsterdam. Amsterdam, right.

SPEAKER_02: But anyway, so... You know, one of the first things that Gavin Andresen did was to try and get my name off of that list. He got his name added. But anyway, so he was like that. And, you know...

SPEAKER_00: I mean, did you end up starting Libbitcoin quite early then?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, 2011, yeah. Like March 2011 or something.

SPEAKER_00: And was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, because... Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project but as a startup right so he's like we need to like pull ranks and we need to like make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast make a roadmap Yeah, I don't know. It was more like he wanted to operate it like a business.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And so I was very worried because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So I was like, there needs to be some constraint on his wild ideas. So that's why I proposed that system. And the thing is, like... Gavin, I mean, I don't want to talk shit about people, but anyway. Yeah, so I made that BIP system for that reason. I was just afraid of that direction, that side of Bitcoin, which they later made a foundation for. And they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And they wanted they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was just like it's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new play thing. And it's just so it's like really interesting toy. And if we just pry out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. You're putting people off.

SPEAKER_00: You're putting people off all this anarchist talk. We're trying to sell this thing.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah I had so our side was like more like oh this is like an actual new economic paradigm right and you know so it's interesting because uh now all the bitcoin maxis are very bitcoin maxi but i'm for example i'm when i first met peter willer yeah in or sipa one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011 and I was talking to him in a conference and he says, he says, oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. Right. I'm more interested just in the scripting.

SPEAKER_00: Just the tech.

SPEAKER_02: No, the scripting language.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, right.

SPEAKER_02: Because it enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah. He wasn't interested in the money thing. Right. So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology is like retroactive. Back then, people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I mean, for the longest time, there was this thought that, you know, all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin, right? It's inevitable. You know, we don't have to be like pushing anything ourselves because, you know, like it'll just all come home.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, the problem with Bitcoin is that it became taken over by these people that they like going to conferences. Right. It's like, you know, they see people they know, you know, a lot of, you know, culty, massive Bitcoin people. You know, they will want to like, oh, I love you. You're amazing. You know, like... And these people, they're not interested in the bigger mission or sense of purpose. It's like it's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these like influencers, essentially. And the thing is, when somebody come and says, you know, let's do something big, let's rock the boat. They're going to see that as an enemy because that's why Bitcoin is so conservative is because it's been it's been taken over by this class of people.

SPEAKER_00: There was like sailors like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday, which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I need to see the full quote, because that sounds ridiculous.

SPEAKER_00: But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute, full-on ossification of saying, you know, these developers, they want to actually change things, and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in 100-year timelines. Because this is the store of value that's going to save humanity. And that's all there is, right? That store of value narrative. And don't use it. Don't use your Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_02: Well, the thing is, there's this book from the 90s. which is the sovereign individual right i'm not saying i agree with all the book but it does it does make interesting analysis it's definitely worth studying and it says that um israel in 1997 and it's talking about cryptocurrency and it's saying how um the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of uh markets like cyber markets in cyberspace right and the capital will become hyper liquid and will be able to flow from any place to any other place. And the governments would lose their power to tax this capital or control this capital. And therefore, it would inherently change the logic of violence. And this is also a very big idea originally in crypto as well. Early days of Bitcoin, people would always bring up this book. And yet, it hasn't come to fruition. So, you know, just in case. it hasn't come to fruition. And so we have to ask ourselves why, like, I don't think the, I don't think the thesis is wrong. Um, I just, I think the thing that they missed was surveillance because the surveillance apparatus, um, obviously can monitor all the flows or the activity of people. And if you can do that, then, um, then now you have law enforcement. Right. So, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And, you know, you...

SPEAKER_02: I'll be able to pause a sec. For sure. Yeah, I just need to listen to this. Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, you know, from what I could see, you know, you started traveling around the world a bit, right? You were in various different places at different times. I mean, were you, you know, were you going around meeting different people, like building, you know, building different things? How was that?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe, which were living in squatted buildings. Right, right. So, you know, there's like in Europe, there's all these squatters laws, which if a building is like abandoned, you can move into the building. And some some squats, they last for years. Yeah. And we'd get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam, we had a huge house. Imagine we're working on free software. We're broke devs. It's a really useful lifeline to have. um and also like living in the center of the cities i mean like now and even working in crypto i look at the price of property and like it's ridiculous yeah it's like really ridiculous i think like societies really need that kind of stuff like support people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It's a shame we don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had lots of places in Europe I could go to. We would have communities, people working on free software in Barcelona, in London, in different places.

SPEAKER_00: So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet?

SPEAKER_02: So actually, I made the first CoinJoin and Stealth implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. And so I was working on Bitcoin implementations nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And then the Dark Wallet, I was like, we need to create a product. We need to create a wallet or something. Right. So that's why we made the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_00: And when did you first meet Vitalik?

SPEAKER_02: Can you remember? Yeah. So I said I was living in these squats around Europe. Yeah. So after 2012, then... There was a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking, and he was a really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the internet and I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. And he's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him. It turns out he walked onto a ferry without any documentation. He came from Estonia across Europe. He came into England and he now looked like Jesus. But he had long hair and long beard and stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Didn't look good for an entry.

SPEAKER_02: Anyway, Mihaly... yeah met him at the conference it was like enchanted by him he was like i just met this guy your friend he looks like jesus man like and then um i remember like how it happened but yeah So then he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train. And so he ended up just walking into a random building in London. And that was like the building of the Occupy activists. So then I went there. And then Mihaly came and we just started living there. And then we started setting up our hack lab there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that also they're making these communities. They also had Calafo. So then they decided to make Calafo, which was eco-industrial.

SPEAKER_00: Near Barcelona, right?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So I was living with Mihaly, I think, for like a year in London.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And then we went to Calafo in Barcelona. Right. And Mihaly co-founded the Bitcoin magazine with Vitalik.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: And so then I was also working on the Bitcoin magazine with them.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, I see. Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: You know, I didn't write loads of stuff. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But, like, for example, I helped Mihaly with the graphic design.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: Like, some of the covers I helped design when we were high.

SPEAKER_00: There you go.

SPEAKER_02: So then, anyway, we went to California, and then Vitalik came to live with us. Yeah. And so then it was and then there was like two other Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine And we we were working together on projects. Yeah, so I'm right that was when we started dark wallet, right? I knew Cody from the conference.

SPEAKER_00: So I says like Cody let's start Which conference from the Amsterdam conference the London one that's the one that you write, right? Was that the one that you organized?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague. Right. And the 2012 one in London as well.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So, yeah, at the time we were working together in the Hack Lab. Mihaly had his, I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure.

SPEAKER_00: No, I think he did that later.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, no, it was Agora or something.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: Anyway, he was creating, I guess, what Darkfire is going to be now, like a social network marketplace kind of thing. Okay. So then he was working on that, and my friends were working on that. And Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. Right, right. And then he was also working, they were working on the magazine. Yeah. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in Hack Lab. Yeah, right. And then, you know, we co-founded the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. And Peter Todd as well? No, Peter Todd came later.

SPEAKER_02: But you can see the original Dark Wallet announcement video on YouTube. And it has all the co-founders listed.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: So, yeah, we were working on that. So the CIC was a network of 10,000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia. Okay. And the whole reason that was made is because there's like a big anarchist movement in Catalonia. Yeah, yeah. And they... You know, they'd been doing their thing for many years.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: But then they started to mature as anarchists, and they were like, so to think more about economics.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And organization and stuff. Right. It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists. Right. They're a lot more organized than, for example, like London, where it's just like crazy people going, you know, like. Yeah. So they... Yeah, so they