SPEAKER_00: Hello, hello, hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So we are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague, Dark Prague. The inaugural Dark Prague 0 Congress conference. I'm not quite sure what you'd call it, but yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of the early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. And one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two Amirs that you had: Capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, you know, before all that started even, how did your.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, how come you're doing this project?

SPEAKER_00: How come I'm doing it?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. What's the.

SPEAKER_00: Well, it was quite coincidental. You know, I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik what I could do to help, anything with the transition or whatever, and he said, can you go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be like, what should we be doing?

SPEAKER_01: Oh dear. If you ask that question, it's already a bad sign.

SPEAKER_00: Well, my question at that point was, so Ming was terrible. She's one of the least professional people I've ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well, what the hell was happening before that? That she looked like a good choice. And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as, was Charles like kind of a co-founder or not? He kind of says he was, maybe, but maybe he wasn't, which is just crazy because he was there doing videos and there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into Anthony Di Iorio. Yes, that's right. There were three.

SPEAKER_01: Didn't he get rocked or something?

SPEAKER_00: There was Anthony Di Iorio.

SPEAKER_01: I don't know the history.

SPEAKER_00: There was Anthony Di Iorio, that was Texture, and there was another guy called Anthony Euphemio who did this Digix Gold thing. But anyway, so I—that's where I started, like getting interested in Ethereum history is just like, well, what the hell happened? What ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely a disaster. You know, Ming went and he just got Aya. Here you go, it's a new one. No changes. What people wanted was transparency. They wanted community input. They wanted a professional executive, like operational organization to help the devs, basically. But primarily it was like, don't be a Swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway, so I put the stuff aside at that point. It's like, great, that was a good use of my time, advising the millionaire for free for months. But then just recently, so guys I now work with, they started recording some videos because Kieren James-Lubin is Joe's son. So he was actually around from March 2014 and the others were sort of involved from 2015. And they were just like, we should get some of these memories down. Right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and I really loved them and I was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this, and then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Gering and with Texture and just tons of stuff came out of that. And then I just kind of shoved those together and there you go. That's Early Days of Ethereum is this sort of combination of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles and then conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like, this is history, right? This stuff was crazy.

SPEAKER_01: Seeing being in crypto since almost the beginning, and seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded, right? And it's like, wow, like history really is just written by the victors. Yeah, it's just crazy.

SPEAKER_00: So the one thing on that score which I don't know if you know is the original Bitcoin Talk post for announcing Ethereum. That was done on 23rd January 2014, right, just before Bitcoin Miami. That page got changed about eight months later, probably around August or September. It got quick edited and a whole load of people that were there got written out.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, you mean like just somebody they.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I guess you can edit Bitcoin Talk pages, but what about.

SPEAKER_01: The people getting deleted and stuff?

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out.

SPEAKER_01: By who? The admins?

SPEAKER_00: Well, by Vitalik, I imagine.

SPEAKER_01: But how do you edit people out of your thread?

SPEAKER_00: No, the original post said, hey, we're Ethereum, blah, blah, blah. This is the team, this is what we're doing.

SPEAKER_01: I see.

SPEAKER_00: So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to—oh, right, Charles and Amir. Well, Amir I don't think was in the original post because he didn't want to be. But Charles got edited out, Stefan and Taylor Gering got edited in, and all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah, but many, many people that were involved early are just forgotten. You know, if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, for example, Ryan Taylor. Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. These pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen—this is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn't know. Just on one of the early ones, for a little while, it just said Ryan Taylor Webb. I know who Ryan Taylor is. So a number of these names, I don't know who they are or maybe start to find them. And basically, it's the work of many hands. Right? This was something I was talking about is the great man theory—the thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of intellectual skills and force, they bend the universe to their will. And that's kind of the story that people like feudalism.

SPEAKER_01: It's like you pledge your allegiance to his liege.

SPEAKER_00: That's right.

SPEAKER_01: And if he, if your liege becomes popular, you will gain through him, you will live vicariously.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Or if you look at the tech world, people are looking for heroes and champions to cheer. In the highest case, something like North Korea, they literally think the leader is a God. They're just crying in front of him, oh, so amazing. So I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost. Right? So many things have already been lost.

SPEAKER_01: Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin, right? He did really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. So check him out as well. Yeah, so I'm finding stuff. And you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. You seem to have a reasonable number of artifacts of various ages that have been preserved about you.

SPEAKER_01: Funny, because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the Internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page.

SPEAKER_00: Right. It's funny. There's a guy called Freddy Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main Bitcoin co-working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things. Even though it's as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep, loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything, they've all got lost and fucked. I've just posted shit on my Facebook page and it's up there forever. Obviously, preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, so much stuff has just rotted because people have deleted their accounts or a platform isn't around anymore or just general rot.

SPEAKER_01: But everything I have from this survived is because I uploaded it to a normie platform.

SPEAKER_00: Yes. Well, this is it.

SPEAKER_01: I like periodically have a cleansing—not accidental, but every few years your data is just reset to zero.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, sucks. Well that's it. Yeah, I mean that was Freddy's super normie story—still using Facebook even though it's Facebook. So yeah, I mean, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early, early Bitcoin dev. So how did you find Bitcoin?

SPEAKER_01: So I was working on free software for five, six years and then I became a professional poker player.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: That was for over two years. And the poker sites, you know, you're playing against other players. But the way the sites operate the platform, they take a cut out of every pot, basically every game that you play.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So the sites charge a huge amount of fees for a really crappy service. So I had this idea: what if you could have a P2P site, then it wouldn't have rake and fees.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So I had the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho hackers. I know. And I was telling them about that. And this guy, a mathematician who worked for the W3C named Melvin, dumped just like 10 links in there. They were random open source projects for money. And there's stuff like LETS. Have you heard of LETS?

SPEAKER_00: No, no.

SPEAKER_01: That was at one point—people were really into that. But it's like you offer your labor, you get like a token or something. But anyway, I was going through all of these links and they're going, no, no, no. I saw Bitcoin. I opened the page for Bitcoin. It said, Bitcoin is a P2P currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks. And I was like, that's garbage. Obviously not. There's like loads of random projects like that on SourceForge. Back in the day, once I saw a Jurassic Park video game, and it was going like, you could do everything. You can punch through the walls, you can hack the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs. And I was like, whoa, sounds amazing. And I checked the code and it said main.cpp. And they had just one file. Yeah, like, just got bored of it. It just wrote the idea.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: And then I kept checking every so often, and there's zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was like one of those projects.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I went, no, no, no. And then I was like, oh, they're all shit. So I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them. And so when it came to Bitcoin, I downloaded the source code and I started going through it and I was like, oh, it's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15,000 lines of code.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Which, you know, 15,000 lines of code is actually a small amount. Some programmers can even do that in a week. But so I was like, oh, but it's not nothing. It's not like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So it's 15,000 lines of code. Let's.

SPEAKER_00: You can read through and kind of understand.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor. You know, it's like my pornography that I'm looking at. I started studying it.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm gonna work on this.

SPEAKER_00: So what month do you think that was?

SPEAKER_01: That was the summer of 2010.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So that's when I was like, okay, I'm just doing this amount. And so I made a plan: oh, in 10 years we'll be here, etc.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: Because I was like, this is a long-term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. It just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin, started writing code. I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, listed on Bitcoin.org.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: But that page is gone. Gone from the Internet.

SPEAKER_00: It's like maybe it got archived.

SPEAKER_01: No, I don't think so.

SPEAKER_00: No, just gone.

SPEAKER_01: Bitcoin web page with the list of names.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So I had a war with Gavin Andresen. Because he was—in many ways, he really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He's a statist and he's let into the banks and stuff. But also he was just not that good a dev. And when there were other young devs coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was trying to push them out and keep control. So I became his main enemy, basically. I was his first enemy. And then he kind of seemed like.

SPEAKER_00: He never wanted the role even. He just sort of got.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, he kind of locked into it.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And then he was there and he's like, oh, I want to keep it. I really like it. So yeah, I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to an audience of bankers. And so I did my talk afterwards. Gavin Andresen DM'd me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the hell is this guy? You're not in charge of the project.

SPEAKER_00: But was this in London or in the US somewhere? Amsterdam.

SPEAKER_01: Right. But anyway, one of the first things that Gavin Andresen did was to try and get my name off of that list. But anyway, right. So he was like that. And.

SPEAKER_00: You know, did you end up starting Libbitcoin quite early then?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, 2011. Mid like March 2011 or something.

SPEAKER_00: And was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Because Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project but as a startup.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So he's like, we need to pull ranks and make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast.

SPEAKER_00: Make a roadmap.

SPEAKER_01: I don't know, it was more like he wanted to operate it like a business.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: And so I was very worried because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So I was like, there need to be some constraints on his wild ideas. So that's why I proposed that system. The thing is, Gavin—I don't want to talk about people. But anyway, yeah, so I made that BIP system for that reason. I was just afraid of that direction. That side of Bitcoin which later made a foundation and they put themselves as chief scientist and tried to do this—it was a takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And yeah, they wanted to push out the anarchists. It's like this attitude of, oh, these crazy anarchists invented this new plaything, it's a really interesting toy, and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side.

SPEAKER_00: You're putting people off, huh? You're putting people off. All this anarchist talk, you know?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: We're trying to sell this thing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Our side was more like, oh, this is an actual new economic paradigm.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: And you know, it's interesting because now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi. But when I first met Peter Wuille or Pieter Wuille, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him at the conference and he says, oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. I'm more interested just in the scripting language. It enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah, he wasn't interested in the money thing.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology is retroactive. Back then people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore what you can do.

SPEAKER_00: Well, for the longest time there was this thought that all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin. It's inevitable. We don't have to push anything ourselves because it'll all come home.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. The problem with Bitcoin is it became taken over by these people who like going to conferences. They see people they know, a lot of culty massive Bitcoin people who want to say, oh, I love you, you're amazing. These people aren't interested in the bigger mission or sense of it. It's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these influencers essentially.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And the thing is, when somebody comes and says, let's do something big, let's rock the boat, they're going to see that as an enemy. And that's why Bitcoin is so conservative—it's been taken over by this class of people.

SPEAKER_00: There was a little video of him I saw the other day which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is competent and enthusiastic devs.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I need to see the full quote because that sounds ridiculous.

SPEAKER_00: But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute full-on ossification of saying, you know, these developers want to actually change things and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in hundred-year timelines because this is the store of value that's going to save humanity. And that's all there is—that store of value narrative and don't use your Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_01: Well, the thing is there's this book in the 90s called The Sovereign Individual.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: I'm not saying I agree with all the book, but it does make interesting analysis. It's definitely worth studying. And it says that in 1997 it's talking about cryptocurrency and how the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets like cyber markets in cyberspace.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: And capital will become hyper liquid and be able to flow from any place to any other place and governments would lose their power over capital, or control this capital.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And therefore it would inherently change the logic of violence. And yet, this is also a very big idea in the early days of crypto—people would always bring up this book, and yet it hasn't come to fruition.

SPEAKER_00: So.

SPEAKER_01: Just in case it hasn't come to fruition, we have to ask ourselves why. I don't think the thesis is wrong. I think the thing they missed was surveillance.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Because the surveillance apparatus can monitor all the flows, all the activity of people. And if you can do that, then you have law enforcement.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: So yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And you know, you pause a sec for sure.

SPEAKER_01: I just need to listen to this.

SPEAKER_00: So from what I could see, you started traveling around the world a bit. You were in various different places at different times. Were you going around meeting different people, building different things? How was that?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe which were living in squatted buildings.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: So in Europe there's all these squatters' laws—if a building is abandoned, you can move into it, and some squats last for years.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And we'd get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam we had a huge house.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Imagine we're working on free software, we're broke devs. It's a really useful lifeline to have. And also living in the center of the cities. Now even working in crypto, I look at the price of property and it's ridiculous. I think societies really need that kind of stuff to support people working on projects and software. It's a shame we don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had lots of places in Europe I could go to. We had communities of people working on free software in Barcelona, in London.

SPEAKER_00: London, I saw. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet?

SPEAKER_01: So actually I made the first CoinJoin and stealth address implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. And so I was working on Bitcoin implementations, nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before. And then with Dark Wallet, I was like, we need to create a product, like a wallet or something. So that's why we made the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_00: And when did you first meet Vitalik? Can you remember?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I was living in these squats around Europe. After 2012, there was a friend I met many years ago when I was hitchhiking—he was a really cool dude. I saw him randomly on the Internet and I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. He's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him. It turns out he just walked onto a ferry without any documentation from Estonia across Europe. He came into England and he looked like Jesus—he had long hair and long beard. Anyway, Mihai.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Met him at the conference and was like enchanted by him. He was like, I just met this guy, your friend. He looks like Jesus, man. And then I can't remember how it happened. But he was meant to come back with me to my house, but he missed the train. And so he ended up walking into the building in London—that was the building of the Occupy activists. I went there and then Mihai came and we just started living there and then we started setting up our hack lab right there. But then I also have friends in Spain that are hackers making these communities. They also had Calafou. So then they started.

SPEAKER_00: Right, which was right near Barcelona?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I was living with Mihai for like a year in London. And then we went to Calafou in Barcelona. And Mihai co-founded Bitcoin Magazine with Vitalik. And so I was also working on Bitcoin Magazine with them. Not that I wrote loads of stuff—it was mainly those guys writing—but I helped Mihai with the graphic design. Some of the covers I helped design. When we were high there, you know. So then we went to Calafou and Vitalik came to live with us. And then there were two other Spanish hackers, old friends of mine, and we were working together on projects. That was when we started Dark Wallet. And I knew Cody from the conference, so I said, oh, Cody, let's start.

SPEAKER_00: Which conference? From the Amsterdam conference, the London one, the one that you. Right, right. And was that the one that you organized?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague, 2012 one in London as well.

SPEAKER_01: So at the time we were working together in the hack lab. Mihai had—I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure.

SPEAKER_00: Anyway, I think he did that later.

SPEAKER_01: Oh no, it was Agora or something. Anyway, he was creating like what DarkFi is going to be now—a social network marketplace kind of thing. So he was working on that and my friends were working on that and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. And then they were working on the magazine. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hack club. Then we co-founded the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_00: Right. And Peter Todd as well.

SPEAKER_01: No, Peter Todd came later.

SPEAKER_00: Right, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: But you can see the original Dark Wallet from that video announcement video on YouTube and it has all the co-founders listed.

SPEAKER_01: So the CIC was a network of 10,000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia. The whole reason that was made is because there's a big anarchist movement in Catalonia. They'd been doing their thing for many years. Then they started to mature as anarchists and they were like, we need to think more about economics, organization and stuff. It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists—they're a lot more organized than, for example, London where it's just crazy people going around. So they were like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives that provide all the basic things people need to live. And we would therefore become autonomous from the state. We'd become our own parallel system, which is cool stuff. And so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because trading inside the network allows people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it. So they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that junction. Yeah, so we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia. Cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside. It was burnt down and people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it. There they had like a village, basically. It's massive. But they had an industrial research sector, electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, which is our club, and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff.

SPEAKER_01: But anyway, as part of that research of the CIC and the tools that the CIC needed, that's how we came up with these ideas. Maybe you've seen the page on Archive.org, right? On system one, talking about Bit Law. Anyway, there's a bunch of pages on our old wiki. It's talking about what applications we need to build with Bitcoin. So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas. So then afterwards he left Mastercoin. First he asked the Bitcoin people, he was like, oh, okay, yeah, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing. And so then he went to Mastercoin and then he went to do.

SPEAKER_00: He was saying he'd also seen what happened with Counterparty. Right, where they were chopping down the returns stuff. It's like, okay, don't want to build some meta protocol on top of this if they're gonna change their mind next month. And it's like, right, your protocol's dead.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so when they were making Ethereum, that's with Anthony Di Iorio and all those people.

SPEAKER_00: Well, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So also a bit before the first Dark Wallet was in Milan.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I was going to mention. So Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we were all together. We were traveling together and go to these places. But anyway, Macau's also like a really big gambling—no gambling. Oh no, in Milan. It's a community center called Macau. Yeah, it's huge. It used to be a meat processing plant, but they have loads of cultural things there. They let us use it for a month to do our event. So that's when Taylor—yeah, right. A lot of those early Ethereum guys, right. Hive Wallet. Yeah, they came there and that's how they all met each other. The early co-founders. And then also Richard Stott, designer. He was also my friend from London. That's how Mihai met him. And Gavin Wood also came to visit us in London.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, Mihai was so—Vitalik had shared a few years ago his first communications with Gavin where Gavin contacted him on 19th December 2013 through About.me and Gavin said, where are you with Ethereum? I can do C++. Basically. And then four days later he'd created his repo to start working on cpp-ethereum. But over the other bit I forgot is Johnny gave me the heads up—that's what he said. Which was Johnny Bitcoin who he had met through you. Right. So Gavin came to the squat at some point in London.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah. We were hanging out because he said he's a KDE developer. He's written the lirc.

SPEAKER_00: Right. I think in one of the interviews he said I'm gonna give my KDE email because it'll give me credit.

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah, yeah, it did. I was like impressed by it. I was like, whoa, he's got a KDE email. That's impressive. So that's