SPEAKER_00: Okay, recording is in. Pro is in progress. It says so. Hello everybody today. Delighted to have Christoph Jentzsch with us. We did attempt to record this, Christoph and I, two weeks ago, but I forgot to press the record button. So we spoke for an hour or so and then it was not recorded. So this is round two. Hello Christoph, how are you?

SPEAKER_01: Hi everyone.

SPEAKER_02: Nice to meet you again. I'm doing good, I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation.

SPEAKER_00: Fantastic. Christoph and I, our paths crossed for the first time way back in 2015 when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch. And this was around the time that Christoph was still at the Ethereum Foundation. And then I think our paths have crossed a number of times since and Kieran's too.

SPEAKER_01: Indeed.

SPEAKER_00: So Christoph, what were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

SPEAKER_02: So the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics actually about self-organizing systems, so like biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior and I came across Bitcoin, which has just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. And the reason I came across this was I was looking for cheap GPUs like graphic cards and the bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so that's how I got into what's bitcoin mining. And so I bought my first bitcoin, got into this bubble, did read everything I could about it and then I came across the white paper from Vitalik, early 2014, something like January, February in some bitcoin forum somewhere. And I was already totally in love with the idea of Bitcoin being a decent currency and all the characteristics and features of it. And this white paper of Vitalik, and if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy, except of NFTs. Everything is in there from DAOs, from ENS, like names, domain name systems and all of that. So for me it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin, but just not a currency but everything else. And so then I started reading everything about it. And in 2014, actually still 2014, in summer, I read the crowd sale was in 2014. Right, right, yeah, the crowd sale. So around the time the crowd sale happened, I watched a video from Gavin Woods. He was somewhere in the Nordics some conference there. The Nordics and he talked about Ethereum. I loved it. And he said, you want to open up an office in Berlin looking for C++ developers. I was a C++ developer so in theoretical physics it's 90% software development. So I said well I want to do this. So I took my parental leave time plus some vacation time from and passed my PhD for like three or six months and said I will return after I'm done. I thought this is just a short project because they raised money maybe six, maybe 12 months, 18 months or so, then it's over. When I started I thought about maybe three to six months and then I go back to my PhD. So I work there with Ethereum. Gavin Wood was a great time and then just decided to stay. Was so exciting.

SPEAKER_00: So you never got to be a doctor?

SPEAKER_02: No, I'm not a doctor. I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left which was kind of a pity. I worked like for three years on that and. But I also had at the time, I think four or five kids. I needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student so I did software development as a side hustle basically. And so when I got this project I said well let's do this for two or three months as a parental leave time and then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD is that I will maybe return one year later because I thought the foundation will eventually run out of money because they're not making any profits, they just raised donations, then they will spend them and then it's over. Then I can continue my PhD. That was originally a plan, just came different.

SPEAKER_00: I mean I guess it's never too late, right.

SPEAKER_02: I actually sometimes think about if I should return. It's just so much to learn again I'm right now doing Tokenize It. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works, works very well. So currently I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon.

SPEAKER_00: No, because I mean famously you had, you know, Dr. Gavin Wood and Dr. Christian Reitwiessner as well and I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well.

SPEAKER_02: There was definitely.

SPEAKER_01: I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting similar background.

SPEAKER_02: It's actually the same like theoretical physics. It's the mathematical part of physics. I enjoyed it very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics mostly. Software development was really fun.

SPEAKER_01: Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening he gets some browser.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, well he'll pop up and we can add him or if he's then never mind. So Christoph in terms of getting hired into EFDEV and I'm sorry if I just missed it. So how did that happen? Did you meet Gav at a meetup? Did you say?

SPEAKER_02: Yes, I actually, I listened only to his talk as for the online thing and I actually just wrote him an email, said look, I see this last developer would love to join Ethereum, love what you're doing. And he invited me to meet me in Kreuzberg Berlin, which again is about two hours drive from here. So I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation he was talking about all the stuff they were going to build and said well what, what can you do? And I just asked him what's like the most complicated stuff you have right now, like give me a complicated task, I somehow can figure it out. So he talked about the Ethereum virtual machine which needed some testing. So so I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine or like writing test for it. Back at the time I actually had no real idea what he was talking about. Meaning of course I did understand on the white paper level I didn't understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper which is still incredible work. Like it's such a great specification, different from Bitcoin really having a specification so multiple clients could be built. And in there he defined the Ethereum virtual machine. And I, I think I read the paper six, seven times. I felt like I was one out of don't know, 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper. I did