[00:00] SPEAKER_04:
All righty. Well, thanks, everyone, for coming back. we've done a couple of videos. So we've done two on the early days of Ethereum, and I actually did another video on identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. in the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob summerwill. So Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in depth in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. Wrote a long blog post that you should check out and we'll link in the notes. we asked him to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro and we can just kind of get into it.

[00:57] SPEAKER_02:
So, yeah, hi, you know, thanks So much for the invite. you know, like I said to you guys, you know, I love those first two videos. you know, I love this history and it was great to you know, both hear that and have, you know, a slightly different perspective as well. you know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So, you know, there are a few things that came up, which I, you know, I wasn't myself aware of. I mean, just for everyone's background about me and who I am. So I got interested in blockchain in was, But it was 2015 where I really like kind of jumped in.. and happened because I was, I was working in Toronto, I had a six month contract and was working in Toronto Toronto the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainland launch. and I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in and, But, you know, just kind of following along a little bit, not not doing anything. But it's like to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude, more stuff going on and meetups and and Di Iorio's Bitcoin and co working space and and and So I got really very addicted. through that year and it's like right I can't not get get involved it's like it's like you're there So 15 years of C web or whatever and you've you know you you've met Tim, Lee and he's about to like go live on the web and it's like you know how could you Ethereum like I I get involved So I I started uh sort of volunteering um and helping my background, to that was in the games industry So like 15 years of C 15 years of C. So I,,, some money, know, I can do something with, Ethereum. and I was really into mobile that wearables. So my that thing I set myself is the you know,. So get was running on my smartwatch? you know, could you get a smartwatch and go around and like,, I think, money,, know, that'd be really cool. So, So yeah,, just started doing stuff on there. that was about the time the foundation was part in company,,, the foundation as well. So there was kind of, dearth of people on that team. So, you know, like that period, I ended up being like, I think the only person in the world who was actually helping on that, like, you know, no companies, no, no, nobody was helping. and then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. and yeah, I've been involved on Ethereum, Enterprise Ethereum, Hyperledger, and more recently, Ethereum Classic for nearly a decade now.. now.

[03:57] SPEAKER_00:
yeah Bob i i well and to be open to everyone like we're old friends um and we're happy to have you as our first guest boost on this thing but also but also like uh you know Ethereum Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum ecosystem you you're friends with everyone you know you go you've been in everywhere so it's great to have your perspective on things thank you so i and friend as karen has mentioned for anyone who hasn't seen bob's blog post it's uh notionally a bar post almost a full novel probably a novella size it has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about um you dug up so much content out of there were those your personal pictures it's just stuff yeah yeah just stuff i i i had i mean another thing here is up, kind of like parity versus the foundation, and charles, you know, and like, god, what, you know, so... i think some people had almost taken this position of like, we don't talk about that, right? Because anything i say like it's going to offend somebody else so just la la la it doesn't matter that you know. but yeah, so i started gathering that list of well you know who were the people that were around in the pre foundation days and then in that. and so yeah, i've got this one page, this people page, which i think is really cool. so that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that i could that was involved with Ethereum pre foundation or who worked for the foundation in those early years. and one of the things that's really great there is devcon0, october 2014. so that was the very first Devcon but it was a closed event, that wasn't a public event, yeah, and it was foundation people at that time but there were also you know some other key community sorts of people there as well. and they did this one thing at the start that was introductions. so there's this video that's about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody like, party, i'm here doing you know proof of stake research. just see these, these you know so young so many people that you know like really early 20s yeah you know and turning up and it's like that's you know that's so and so right. and some of these people as well you know they they're not involved anymore you know they're sort of like footnotes in history but but you have that record and uh so yeah that list of people i got all of that together. and the reason that that came about was in late 2017, i got a message from laura shin saying, hey, i hear ming's been sacked at the foundation. Do you know anything about this?

[04:53] SPEAKER_02:
there's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was, there's one called Ethereum foundation people And one called Ethereum foundation Timeline. So I made those in late 2017, early 2018, because there was no canonical history of any of this. it's like, how did Ethereum start? I mean, it's in people's heads, it's all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around, but, you know, it's like, what's true, what isn't? because I think, especially on that,,, foundation side, it was such a mess, right? just like, all different people weren't getting on, blowing up, kind of like, parity versus the foundation, And Charles, you know, And like, God, what, you know, So... it I think some people had almost taken this um position of like we don't talk about that right right because anything I say like it's going to offend somebody else So just la la la it doesn't matter that you know that but uh but yeah So I started gathering that list of well you know who were the people that were around in the pre foundation days And then in that And um So yeah, I've got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. So that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum pre foundation or who worked for the foundation in that early years. And one of the things that's really great there is DevCon0, October 2014 So that was the very first Devcon but it was a closed event that wasn't a public event yeah And it was it was foundation people at that time but there were also of know some other key Community sorts of people there as well And they did this one thing at the start that was introductions So there's this video that's about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody like party I'm here doing you know proof of state research just see these these you know So you So many people that you know like really early 20s yeah you know And turning up And it's like that's you know that's So And So right And some of these people as well you know they they're not involved anymore you know they're they're sort of like footnotes in history but but but you have that record And uh So, yeah, that list of people, I got all of that together. And the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, hey, I hear Ming's been sacked at the foundation. Do you know anything about this? that together. And the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, hey, I hear Ming's been sacked at the foundation. Do you know anything about this? And I said, well, no, I don't, but it wouldn't surprise me, but uh, you know, basically it would be like Vitalik or maybe hudson could tell you, but like, nobody, nobody else could tell you anyway, And you know, it sort of came out, well, yeah, she's, you know, she's not been sacked, but she's agreed to leave, right, And then it's like, well, what's next? So I contacted Vitalik And said, you know, hey, is there anything I can Do to help, you know, what can I Do, you know, And he said, well, the one thing you can Do is, can you like try And talk to people And work out like, you know, what would good look like, what the people think a good Ethereum foundation would look like, And So that started my sort of adventure, really, of like, right, I'm going to go And talk to all the founders, all the other people, And try And work out like, you know, what, what, And then that just turned into really a thought experiment on my side of like, okay, So, my mind being was terrible, So how did she get hired? what was going on, whatever, two And a half years back that that looked like a good option? how did it work before? how did the foundation come about? what were the group of leaders And like, what were all the dynamics between all of these people? So yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there, And that was the sort of the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well, I gave to Laura And to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books, is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I've found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time.

[07:57] SPEAKER_00:
Right. The things that i know that Vitalik said, and again, it was maybe in laura shin's book, was like the founding of Ethereum was very atypical. Because it was essentially like, here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested. And it's basically like first people that turn up, Right, you're the founders. Like a number of them, they'd not even met each other before. Not really a lot of knowledge. And so yeah, like there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn't work at all. It's just like, no, like founding a company, and i'm sure you guys have this experience yourself, Right? You want to start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know that you're going through the fire together. So you better have some stickability with you and common alignment or at least knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times, Right? And you know that you can work it out. Yeah. And what seems to happen on Ethereum was absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just random bunch of people who were there, didn't really know each other, like.

[07:58] SPEAKER_02:
and I said, well, no, I don't. but it wouldn't surprise me but uh you know basically it would be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you but like nobody nobody else could you you anyway and you know it sort of came out well yeah she's you know she's not been sacked but she's agreed to leave, and then it's like well what's what's next So I contacted Vitalik and said you know and is there anything I can do to help you know can can I do you know and he said well the one thing you can do is can you like try and talk to people and work out like you know what would good look like what the people think a good Ethereum foundation would look like and So that started my sort of Adventure really of like like I'm going to go and talk to all the founders all the other people and try and work out, you know what what and then that just turned into really a thought experiment on my side of like, okay, So my mind being was terrible. So How did she get hired? what was going on, whatever, two and a half years that that that looked like a good option? How did it work before? How did the foundation come about? what were the group of and and like what were all the dynamics between all of these people. So yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there and that was the sort of the genesis for that information gathering. and I learned a lot. and that information as well I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I've found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time. to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books, is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I've found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time.

[09:47] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. well and also it's to your point is that I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about you know like everything works smooth but innovation is messy you know it's messy and it's like you know there are a million and one different paths that things could have Went to and we just want to kind of acknowledge all that like you know like given where the ecosystem is today and even though you know it's amazing to me that so many people know about it that later I spent we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain and no one you know everyone just glaze over right so it's it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point oh Went a little bit farther than that. We'll just go with it. people, like Vitalik put the idea out there and then people fought for its destiny. like Ethereum existed and then they wanted to be part of taking it to, and he saw the clients and all that too. Sorry, jim, go ahead.

[10:37] SPEAKER_02:
One of the things that I know that Vitalik said, And again, it was maybe in Laura Shin's book, was like the founding of Ethereum was very atypical. because it was essentially like, here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested. And It's like basically like first people that turn up Right you're the founders like you know a number of them they'd you know they'd not even met each other before you know not really a lot of knowledge Um And So Yeah like there were lots of Um interpersonal things that just didn't work at all It's just like no like founding a company, And I'm sure you guys have this experience yourself, Right? you want to start with people that you kind of know And trust you bit because you know that you're going through the fire you. So you better have some stickability with you And common alignment or at least Um, knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right. And you, you know, you know that you can work it out. Yeah. And what seems to happen on the theory was absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just random bunch of people who were there didn't really know each other, like. was absolutely the polar opposite of that, It's just random bunch of people who were there, didn't really know each other, like.

[12:06] SPEAKER_04:
make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing right yeah and so that didn't work so great and I think also let me actually I wanted to ask about that I'm also just looking at the list of the Ethereum Foundation people which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was you know, we talk about this because we're a management team and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to Do and such. Do you think there is any benefits to this level of you could call it disorganization or just, you know, I kind of think if there were a benefit and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it embodied the ethos and it let people, Like Vitalik put the idea out there and then people fought for its destiny. Like Ethereum existed and then they wanted to be part of taking it to, and he saw the clients and all that too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead. all that too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead. Sorry, Jim, go ahead.

[13:09] SPEAKER_00:
going to say it kind of worked like a blockchain works in fact yeah lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things and then they fight it out but what's that law that organization technology reflects the organization yeah something like that like yes sorry yeah i mean i i i guess in general yes you, having that like frothing emergent the history having that development of Bitcoin, but it was kind of similar. There was less of a, there was no pre mine and no token pre sale. and so the people who were in it were in it for general interest and it was really sincerely an even playing field. and i would argue, in some ways, Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, let's say 2015. some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes. and that's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. but it's, i think, been stifled a little bit for that reason. i think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner., you know, whatever, stuff, like the ea, and hyperledger, or even just, you know, the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum, you don't want to pay one team, and not the others, because that just screws that battlefield, so, um, you have this situation, for example, where you've got the c client, and you've got a geth, you did have a python client as well, so you have that good triangulation, but it was essentially like the funded ones were c and go, and then they have the money crisis of like, oh, my god, is this thing even going to happen? Right, we got cut scope, c is gone, geth ends up going out of the way, and then you have parity, you know, having one of the major clients, but without funding, so it's like, oh, geth, that's the, you know, that's the favored child, right? you know, that's the, it's not like the official client, but it is the official client, so all that sort of like separation of implementation versus specification, and, you know, and that free market around that, was really skewed, because the money was with geth, and the foundation, and they've got, you know, metallics kind of blessing, and everything. So, yeah, i think that's where things were great, because you did have the diversity, but it wasn't fair diversity, and i think if you look at what's happening now, on, the consensus clients for, i was gonna say Ethereum 2, it's not called Ethereum 2 anymore, but, you know, the separation that you have with those execution clients, and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation, the foundation doesn't have client teams, they do funding, like they've got the grants, and i think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients, so that's kind of centralization in a way, but it is an even playing field, in terms of the development, right? Because you've got an evenness of funding, and that wasn't the case, you know, originally for Ethereum, and i think that made a lot of bitterness, as well, because it's like, well, why have you guys got the money? like, we're making another one, as well, or, you know, other parts of the ecosystem, like, there wasn't a grants program for a number of years, between about 2015, and 2018, there wasn't even a grants program.

[13:37] SPEAKER_02:
Like stuff is is good I think where it was really screwed though was to do with money and and you know the ICO funding right that it's basically Like okay here we're doing the thing and here the money is all actually in this organizational group and the people in that group are being funded you know are in this privileged position um it's something which Brian Bellendorf said to me in later years was of sort of Like the original sin of Ethereum is if you want to have that kind of and So you know whatever stuff Like the EA and hyperledger Or even just you know the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum you don't want to pay one team and not the others because that just screws that battlefield So um you have this situation, for example, where you've got the C client and you've got a Gath. you did have a Python client as well. So you have that good triangulation, But it was essentially Like the funded ones were, and Go. and then They have the money crisis of Like, oh, my God, is this thing even going to happen? right. We got cut scope. C is gone. Gab. up going out of the way. and then you have parity. you know, having one of the major clients, But without funding. So it's Like, oh, Geth, that's the, you know, that's the favored child, right? you know, that's the, it's not Like the official client, But it is the official client. So all that sort of Like separation of implementation versus specification and, you know, and that free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth Gary Hedges and get rid of the foundation and they've got you know metallics kind of blessing and everything, So I think that's where things were great. Gary Hedges because you did have the diversity, But it wasn't fair diversity, and I think if you look at what's consensus clients on. the consensus clients for, I was gonna say Ethereum 2, it's not called Ethereum 2 anymore, But you know, the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation. the foundation doesn't have client teams. They do funding, Like they've got the grants, and I think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients. So that's kind of centralization in a way, But it is an even playing field in terms of the development, right? because you've got an evenness of funding and that wasn't the case, you., originally for Ethereum. and I think that made a lot of bitterness as well, because it's Like, well, why have you guys got the money? Like, we're making another one as well. Or, you know, other parts of the ecosystem. Like, there wasn't a grants program for a number of years. Between about 2015 and 2018, there wasn't even a grants program.

[16:48] SPEAKER_04:
know you've got the foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars And teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything so uh so yeah I think the diversity is good But the money was bad interesting yeah I I think all right okay that's a it's a good strong point so if you compare to like a Bitcoin which I know less about the history of the development of Bitcoin But was was kind of similar there was less of a there was no pre mine And no token pre sale. And so the people who were in it were in it for general interest And it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I would argue, you know, in some ways, Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, you know, let's say 2015, some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes. And that's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it's, I think, you know, been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner. bit later. I think for that phase, it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry. you know, nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback, right? you know, when the crowd sale had gone through, you had, you know, money for early contributors, which I think that was nearly 10. yeah. for like 100, 120 people. like some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months. yeah. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual, you know, staff onto those teams. And that, I think, is when it became kind of uneven because you already had ethereumj for a number of months there And that, you know, that never got funded. And then you And then you guys starting whenever you were starting. so, yeah, it kind of became uneven, I think, at that point. And probably the worst of it of all was for parity, when that team spun out And you basically did have a major, rapidly load bearing client, And it was just unfunded, especially with gav, who had been the cto And wrote the yellow paper And had the first working client And you know all of the value he delivered And then it's like right sorry you're out And you're not getting any money you know.

[18:06] SPEAKER_02:
Another major difference there talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision, right, on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients. and there were multiple clients from day one. I see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for PyEthereum, PyF app, or PyEthereum as it was, CPP Ethereum and GoEthereum. and they were all, Um, I think they were all November or December. I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three. yeah. Um, and then Ethereum J looked like it started in about April, I think, but you know, yeah, Jim, Karen, you guys started Ethereum H in 2014. 2014.

[18:56] SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, we were much later. we were, um, when did we get deployed? Quarter 2014. Yeah. That sounds about right., but one at a time. And it was tight, right? And so they did go Ethereum first. And i think they did actually do the security audit on cpp Ethereum, but i'm not quite sure.

[19:07] SPEAKER_04:
and I had worked on the theory just the the summer. so starting kind of maybe June, 2014, I got to know the project. well. and then I had gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that. and then we started work more or less right away, more Jim than me. but, um, so yeah, so there was a big time delay on, on our side. and yeah, I think, okay, yeah, Bob, it's an interesting point, right, I think probably they could have, you know, there was some real mismanagement at different times, both with the running out of funds, not doing any hedging. and then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people. and it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously, we're talking about a smashing success here, but it's sort of... the idea and the community was so powerful that it, you know, there's definitely succeeded in spite of aspect. I think there was value still in this, like, throw it out there, get people to fight over it. it.

[20:20] SPEAKER_02:
But it probably probably over corrected and lots of these people also just went and started their own thing I mean the other thing is right at the start there it's like well the people that are doing it that was the whole world right you know that was everything right was uh several months I mean all of that early work on the clients actually was before the foundation even existed that was actually unfunded yeah um because I'm looking at the dates. So the white paper came out in November 2013. Pyre theorem was started on November the 19th, 2013. Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. CPP Ethereum started four days later, 23rd of December. Obviously some over Christmas hacking on these things going on. and then GoEthereum was December the 26th. So just three further days. the foundation got formed, I think, in,. April or May 2014, But the crown sale didn't conclude until September 2014. So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So I think that unfairness kind of came in a little bit later. I think for that phase, it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry. you know, nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback, right? you know, when the crown sale had gone through, you had, you know, money for early contributors, which I think that was nearly 10. yeah. for like 100, 120 people. like some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months. yeah. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual, you know, staff onto those teams. and that, I think, is when it became kind of uneven because you already had Ethereum J for a number of months there and that, you know, that never got funded. and then you and then you guys starting whenever you were starting. So, yeah, it kind of became uneven, I think, at that point. and probably the worst of it of all was for Parity, when that team spun out and you basically did have a major, rapidly load bearing client, and it was just unfunded, especially with Gav, who was re out and you re not getting any money. Audit for two clients, But one at a time. and it was tight, right? and So they did go Ethereum first. and I think they did actually do the security audit on c Ethereum, But I'm not quite sure. you know, all of the value, he delivered, and then it's like, right, sorry, you're out, and you're not getting any money, you know, yes, do you, um.

[23:09] SPEAKER_04:
been the cto And wrote the other paper And had the first working client And you know all of the value he delivered And then it's like right sorry you're out And you're not getting any money you know yes do you um so my memory around the c client was that there were funds to do a security audit for Two clients, but one at a time. And it was tight, right? And so they did go Ethereum first. And I think they did actually do the security audit on CPP Ethereum, but I'm not quite sure.

[23:46] SPEAKER_02:
I'm not sure they did, you know. Maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money ran out before it happened. I mean, my understanding in terms of uptake as well is CPP ethereum go ethereum just like caught up and overtook it like really fast uh so when they were making those decisions on cutting funding which would have been mid 2015 it's like hey gabby you're the cto but it's your code base that's got a copy and then that's what happened and then that s what happened. base that's got a copy, and then that's what happened, and.

[24:29] SPEAKER_01:
I mean, I was, I was sort of building, uh, the various clients quite a bit, cuz I was trying to integrate with them at the time. and my memory was that the C plus plus client had all the newest stuff in it first. would if I wanted to see something first, I would go there, But the go client was more stable. Like because I think because they were putting so much stuff into the C client, it was often an unstable situation. and so I would typically kind of go to C first to see the new stuff. But if it wasn't building that day, I would run over to go and try it out., and try it out.

[25:00] SPEAKER_02:
yeah, I mean, And that would make complete sense because the other thing to know with the C client is that that was where the test suites were done. know Like all the all the tests were generated out of that code base so as You say all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first then You do the test generation through that And then those were the tests for uh for other clients so even when CPP Ethereum as a client Like died it didn't die within that testing suite for years it's Like right even though nobody's actually Like running this or using it on mainnet or anything You know we've got to keep we've got to keep maintaining that one because that's where the tests are coming from um so yeah that that front line was really Like leading across solci the tests And CPP Ethereum You know all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the GUI apps Like with mix And Aleph zero Alice one out of five it took 24 hours to build the bloody thing. But that will be because it was all around GAV,,? You know, GAV was leading all of that, You know, he was building that client, he was writing the yellow paper, he was You know, working there with Christian And Christoph on that specification And testing stuff Like that, You know, all of that was there. And then on Jeff's side, You know, just doing Geth, right? it wasn't a broader thing. And that Geth team were working closer with Mist, You know, with Avsaron Mist. Like for a good while, I don't think CPP Ethereum even worked with Mist. You know, it's Like all these groups not really talking to each other. But yeah, that would make sense. Like a lot of it was GAV led. Mist, Like, for a good while, I don't think C Ethereum, even worked with Mist, You know, it's Like, all these groups, not really talking to each other, But, yeah, that would make sense, Like, a lot of it was GAV led.

[27:08] SPEAKER_00:
And wait, so C, the Solidity compiler, That was part of That C group too? Yeah. That makes sense because it's written in C. Yeah. For the geth team. You had the london stuff as well, which was mainly communications sort of stuff with stephan And george hallam, ian meikle And one other person who i forget. But you sort of talk about these people working for the Ethereum foundation, but it was always woolier than That. so, Yeah, you did have the stiftung in zug, but most people, even if they're working full time, they weren't actually working for That. so when i had my contract, it was with the for profit fdev in berlin, That was who i was actually working for. And then they were funded by the foundation. And fdev in general, That was another big split That there was, right? was you got the foundation, but then you had fdev That was like the kind of umbrella group for That, That gav was leading essentially. so i think the amsterdam thing rolled into berlin. I think That was all sort of fdev side. And That in itself was a huge item of conflict, i know. Again, in laura's book, i think joe was talking about That, right? was That gav kind of wanted a big chunk of money. it's like, right, the funds are there from the crowd sale now, so give them all to us, right? And it's like, i don't know That we want to give you all the funds. As you go, but That was typical of That period is just a mess of complexity And interpersonal things And organizational complexity. And with That swiss people thing, so my understanding on That was That was like a main motivation for getting renting That spaceship building, right? was the intention was That there were going to be a load of people there but like maybe it was, i think testing was one of the ones i heard was maybe a goal there. Is like, right, we're going to get a load of swiss people to test things. And there's also like mihai with his holon ideas, holon of these co working spacey things around the world.

[27:21] SPEAKER_02:
It was all under Web3 umbrella. S written in c. It was all under the Web3 umbrella.

[27:24] SPEAKER_00:
I remember Web3 Umbrella. I remember Web3 Umbrella, yes.

[27:28] SPEAKER_02:
So yeah, web3 umbrella was a Git repo with sub repos for, you know, for F, it was called F, it was just called F, the executable. So you had F and again, but yeah, you had F, you had Sol C. you had Mix, which was the original IDE. Yes. Cute client. you had Aleph0, which was the GUI miner. yeah. So it's like, right here, here's a good press the mine button. and then you had Aleph1, which was sort of, I guess it was like, kind of like a GUI client runner thing I can't remember the exact scope but but it was sort of like right you're running a node but you kind of got a GUI on it and I can't remember what it had but you know whatever logs going by and I guess you could like fiddle with settings or whatever um but yeah all of that was in web3 umbrella um that's a lot yeah and all of the depend they were all really test and the tests as well right right but then they were all really codependent I mean when I started one of the first things I did was like what are the dependencies on all of these things like what is all of this stuff because you have like libraries with it as well it's like lib ethereum lib web bay web3 base was like, what are the dependencies on all of these things, like, what is all of this stuff, because you have like libraries with it, as well, it's like libethereum, libweb3, web3 base.

[29:02] SPEAKER_04:
Yeah. Dev P2P, live P2P. There was documentation all over the place. Very shortly consensys emerged out of that too. And they were doing a bunch of work, we were working, we were technically working under consensys for the first little parts of it too. And all of that was like in the mix, everywhere. So... I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an etc expert. And in our last one, we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from slockit and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through that and how etc emerged out of that. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on how those pieces all came together.

[29:10] SPEAKER_02:
I think what had happened there that gav was sort of trying to do, But it never came to fruition And then he left, was it's like, right, let's try And make this modular. We're going to try And do a modular thing And pull apart the networking And the database And this, that And the other. But it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these. so you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway. you couldn't mix And match because there was no versioning, there was no interplace discipline on any of it. you had to use all the latest ones together, But then it was all split into these separate repos. so it's like, right, you're making a change on one of them And then whatever, updating the submodules And like, like that wasn't atomic it was it was just a big old mess um so yeah one of the first things I did was like you know work out info infer a dependency diagram um map a path to pulling it all back into a into a monolithic workspace um doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have um And specifically decoupling um so for solstice for example because it was tied in with this our build it was like compiling chromium from source twice compiling qt all of this stuff so just to get you know And there weren't binaries available for solci either like you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to like compile you know a smart contract to do anything you have to do all of that so I remember you know after all that decomposition I, you know, I got it. so you could just do Sol C. And, you know, that was a quick build. And then I did like homebrew. And it's like, so, could do like brew install Sol C And it did it in like five seconds. And everyone's like, oh my God, this is amazing. But yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a mess., And it's like, so you could do like, brew install solc, And it did it in like five seconds, And everyone's like, oh my God, this is amazing, But, yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

[31:31] SPEAKER_00:
I I do remember waiting like you know many times trying to build things coming back looking at it saying like this can't be like my machine's got to be broken because like it can't be this long it can't be like eight hours like nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do you know but you're right you know talking about that you know creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything you know, but you're right, you know, talking about that, you know, creative brew of lots of different people, and uncoordinated, and everything.

[31:58] SPEAKER_02:
one of my first observations on joining the the foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism Because that's seen as you know in an organized way well you're one of the baddies you know you're the status quo you're trying to subvert IT And take IT over you know things as simple as like like you know Have We got like technical leads That actually lead Have We got any project management? Have We got any IT? Have We got anything? And it's like, no, it's just like a jumble of people doing stuff. And it's like, how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment? But That was kind of the vibe as well. That was seen as a good thing. Because that's a defensive cultural thing, right? We don't We don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing. want this to be a Silicon Valley thing., We don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing.

[32:56] SPEAKER_04:
I just have a comment. it's interesting, and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos. one of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from the United States, it's Canada. it's different parts of Europe. and one of those confusing things, Bob, to your point about who got paid for the clients on the foundation. I remember there being a deal struck with Zug, the Canton basically around it. there was tax stuff and all that sort of thing. but they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally. people would either move there or they'd hire ETH Zurich grads or whatever. and I don't know the details specifically, but I think that didn't quite end up happening that way. and sort of as a surprise, and I saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which Amir and Charles were sent on their way, the client team set up in their own countries. and that was a bit of a script flip. Gavin wanted to be in Berlin because I guess the devs were good and expensive and to be living there. Inexpensive, excuse me. and yeah, I think it's just, you know, you would, running my own business, you would never make such a decision in such a flip manner where Like overnight, we're Like, oh, we're doing a different country, you know. but that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent, major things changing, you know, as part of how the foundation plus sort of operated that I saw. and again, it didn't seem to hurt, you know, quite as much as you might expect. but yeah, but I think, you know, you, you had to have, you were lucky in how people were, how excited people were about the project that, that survived all of this. Um, and again, from our side, you know, we're sitting in the Bay area at that time and we're Like, why, why do they keep doing all of these things? Like they're, they're trying to build a thousand things and it's hard to build one thing. time, and we're Like, why, why do they keep doing all of these things? Like, they're, they're trying to build a thousand things, and it's hard to build one thing.

[35:09] SPEAKER_02:
Um, yeah, I mean, so there, there were separate legal entities for those as well. right. so you have F dev AG. in Berlin and then there was an Amsterdam thing for the guest team. you had the London stuff as well, which was mainly communications sort of stuff with Stefan and George Hallam, Ian Meikle and one other person who I forget. but, you know, you sort of talk about, you know, these people working for the Ethereum foundation, but it was always woolier than that. so, yeah, you did have the shtipung in Zoog, but most people, even if they're working full time, they weren't actually working for that, you know. so when I had my contract, it was with the for profit FDev, in Berlin, that was who I was actually working for. and then they were funded by the foundation. the FDev in general, that was another big split that there was, right? was you got that foundation was but then you had FDev that the like the kind of umbrella group for that that was Gav was leading essentially. so I that the Amsterdam thing rolled into Berlin. I think I was all sort of FDev side. and that in itself was a huge item of conflict, I know. Again, in Laura's book, I think. was talking about that, right? was that Gav kind of wanted a big chunk of money. it's like, right, the funds are there from the Crown sale now, so give them all to us, right? and it's like, I don't know that we want to give you all the funds. as you go, but that was typical of that period is just a mess of complexity and interpersonal things and organizational complexity. and with that Swiss people thing, so my understanding on that was that was like a main motivation for getting renting that spaceship building, right? was the intention was that there were going to be a load of people there but like maybe it was I think tests testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal there is like right we're going to get a load of Swiss people to test things and there's also like Mihaly with his Holon ideas Holon of these co working spacey things around the world working spacey things around the world

[37:53] SPEAKER_00:
and also to make it a little bit more earlier, like, you know, same time, like very shortly consensus emerged out of That too. and they were doing a bunch of work, you know, we were working, you know, we were technically working under consensus for, you know, the first little parts of it too. and all of That was like in the mix, you know, like everywhere. So... I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert. and in our last one, we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from SlotKit and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through That and how ETC emerged out of That. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on how those pieces all came together.

[38:41] SPEAKER_02:
Yeah. one of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of like shrinking of the foundation was that on that C team that got most of the cuts, a good chunk of those people went to, just went straight to parity And just like carried on with that new client. but Christoph Jentz, who had testing effort, we were just talking about those same tests. He And Stephan Toile, who had been community communications leader, that sort of thing, community stuff. And Lefteris, who'd also been on C team, those three went off And formed a company called Slockit. So Slockit being smart locks, just the idea that You You know, whatever, if you're doing an Airbnb or something that You can, You know, that You could have a that lock And that You could go And do your contract with someone for, for the rental. And then that could be, You know, enabling something on the lot that's checking a, an Oracle or an on chain thing And, And, And So on. Um, And So that, that was the, the, their, their product area at DEVCON one. they did like an onstage demo that was like a pot of, it was like a kettle, like a pot. Yeah, I remember that. like doing a transaction that turned it on to make a cup of tea. Yeah. that was the onstage demo. but what seemed to happen there was like they didn't want to do an ICO. they wanted it to be fairer, I guess, because around that era, more later, You know, You saw lots of cash grab ICOs And it's like, right, here's all the money up front. You know, we're not going to live it. what are You going to do? right. So they didn't want to do that, You know, because they were very genuine people who come out of the foundation And were, You know, kind of, You know, ideologically driven. So Vitalik had written stuff about DAOs, right? You know, I think they were mentioned in the white paper even. And it's like, well, maybe we can make a DAO. So, And I think that was just Slockit DAO really originally. And it was like, right, we're gonna have a DAO. the money's gonna go into there, but then it's only gonna get released to us as we deliver milestones. So it's kind of like this separation of like, right, the DAO is where the money is And that's controlled by the token holders. Slockit as a company is a service provider into that, but we're a sackable service provider And we're only going to get paid as we go through the milestones. So it's like, oh, that's really interesting. Yeah. And to my understanding, that's what was presented at DEVCON1.

[41:54] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. I remember that.

[41:55] SPEAKER_02:
I remember was like, hey, with Slockit, this is what we're doing And we're going to do a DAO with It. And It's like, oh, cool. But then they kept working on that DAO stuff after DevCon 1, And It just seemed to warp into, Well, we've made a DAO framework. It's a DAO library because we want other people to be able to do this as Well. But then that sort of turned into, Well, actually, How about It isn't just us? How about It could be anything? Anyone could have a service provider. You could propose anything into It. And then It became the DAO. Okay. And It wasn't capped. There was no cap on the contributions into It. There was really nothing else that You could do on Ethereum at that point. It was kind of like the first application, really. Well, I mean, You did have a few. You had DigX, this gold thing. You did have DAI, I think, was sort of coming to life just about at that point. But the DAO was kind of like the first big thing.. is where the money is, And that s controlled by the token holders. Slock. It, as a company, is a service provider into that, But we re a sackable service provider, And we re only going to get paid as we go through the milestones. So It s like, oh, that s really interesting. And to my understanding, that s what was presented at DevCon 1. I remember: hey, with slock. It, this is what we re doing, And we re going to do a DAO with It. And It s like, oh, cool. But then they kept working on that DAO stuff after DevCon 1, And It just seemed to warp into: Well, we ve made a DAO framework. It s a DAO library because we want other people to be able to do this as Well. But then that sort of turned into: Well, actually, How about It isn t just us? How about It could be anything? Anyone could have a service provider. You could propose anything into It. And then It became the DAO. And It wasn t capped. There was no cap on the contributions into It. There was really nothing else that You could do on Ethereum at that point. It was kind of like the first application, really. Well I mean, You did have a few. You had digix, this gold thing. You did have DAI, I think, sort of coming to life just about at that point. But the DAO was kind of the first big thing.

[43:03] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[43:04] SPEAKER_02:
and it just sort of snowballed and snowballed, right? because it was also touted as zero risk because you could exit with your funds, right? if you didn't like the result of What was happening, you could just exit and have your F back. so It's kind of like, this is risk free, right? It's like a sovereign bond or whatever, right? There's no downside here. this is risk free. so tons of people are like, well, What else am I going to do? I'm just sitting here on my ether. I can't do anything. well, pile on in. and the Ethereum crowd sale raised What is 16 million, I think, in Bitcoin, which was, I think it was number five crowd sale of all time. it was like comparing to Kickstarter projects. so It's like, maybe the Dow will do two or 3 million, maybe five. and it just went until it was just absolutely gigantic. and I remember at the time thinking, you know, this is, I don't like this, like the DAO, It's not, this is not a good idea. and the main reason I was thinking of that was, is this a security? is this seen as, you know, money transfer stuff? because you've got Slocket, the company, and then they have this thing called DAO Link, that was sort of a service company for paying people in real life. that was some Swiss thing, I think. or what's Bitcoin Swiss? and then you have the DAO itself. you have the curators as well. so anyone could propose a smart contract that encoded their proposal a right? they would make a written description of the thing. and here's a smart contract doing it. and the What role was like to verify What they've sort of said in text. kind of What they've done. it was meant to be like, you know, this kind of administrative role. But What happened is all of those guys, that was their names and faces up on the website. so like DownHub website is just like a who's it of the Ethereum foundation, basically. and it didn't say, you know, Christian Reitweissner, creator of Solidity. it said, Christian Wright Weissner, Ethereum foundation. Vitalik, Ethereum foundation. so lots of people were like, this is an Ethereum foundation project, right? because you've all got your names on everything. so I thought, firstly, there was huge legal liability on those guys. because where Slocket have got these layers of legal protection, these guys haven't. they're just doing it as individuals. and I remember Fabian... talking to me and talking to the group in the foundation is like, you know, I've been talking to some of my friends and they're like, you know, they don't think this is a great idea. and I'm thinking of talking to a lawyer and Gav backed out, right? a couple of weeks before the disaster, Gav just backed out. He's like, you know, this is, you know, this, this is not What I signed up for. I thought it was just a small role. and it It's like, Dan Campbell presented as a lot more, and you know, so he he backed out a lot of the others didn't because because it was like well if we back out It's going to ruin it and It's like a great experiment. Dan Campbell But I thought those huge liability to them, I thought there were legal risks and also just thought it was a stupid idea. Why would you have thousands of random people putting their money in a bucket and then let's vote on What to do with it? right. Who are these that? What do they even know about a business proposal or anything? It's just like, this is a stupid idea. But I didn't have my eye on the fact that all of the tech stack was incredibly immature at that point, right?

[47:17] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[47:18] SPEAKER_02:
There's no best practices. There's no libraries. It's just here's some code.

[47:23] SPEAKER_00:
And they just went all in in right it was like code Is law yeah contract you know the smart contract Is the contract you know Yolo you can't stop us but but okay And then the hack happens right And And I remember the details of the the being they found a flaw in the smart contract code And they could basically withdraw those funds into another account And I remember there was some kind of race between like the people at the DAO slash locket who are like using the same exploit to like drain the account, like using the same hack basically. Is that right?

[48:07] SPEAKER_02:
yeah. So there was this reentrancy bug where it's really sort of like to do with atomic operations or order of operations So your re entrancy was that you could be calling uh because people were supplying like their proposals and it's like hey here's a smart contract that's implementing mine you were like calling into their code but you can't know what theirs is going to do So there was this reentrancy issue where rather than just being able to pull your F or your share, you can actually go in and pull more and more. So you have this hacker using this, had a child DAO and pulling a if you of the funds into that child DAO. and then within 30 days, saying, well, hey, the funds. but kind of the my, I guess, of that setup is they're not immediately exiting with the funds, right. They haven't gone already and sold it on an exchange and they're done before you notice. you have got this... period uh and then the other thing is that you could going to make a go DAO, child now as DAO So after the hack, know there was this appeal out hey you know like did anyone participate in this you know specific child there was anyone in there it's like yeah you know yeah somebody else is in there and then what you could do is you could you know you could child down again it's like you could do it another one it's like right well i'm gonna grab it off you and you're gonna grab it off me and um So you know you could have had this this down wars thing of like you can never stop it but you could delay it indefinitely So that was one of them but then the other white hat thing is like okay the funds know about the bug So we can do it too you can have white hat people like well we're going to see a lot of the money out of and top out of the top down as well but we're doing it for good right we're doing it here to keep it to give it back right So, yeah, you had all of those games going on within that existing setup, but then you a reaction to that, you had all of this discussion about, well, you know, Are we going to react? Are we not going to react? the first proposal was a soft fork, but, you know, it was just going to, like, blacklist out it to do with the you could right? this this DAO wars thing of like you can never stop it but you could delay it indefinitely So that was one of them but then the other white hat thing is like okay well you know about the bug So we can do it too you can have white hat people like well we're going to seize a lot of the money out of the top DAO as well but we're doing it for good right we're doing it here to keep it to give it back right So yeah you had all of those games going on within that existing setup, but then as a reaction to that, you had all of this discussion about, well Are it going to react? Are we not going to react? the first proposal was a soft fork, but it was just going to like blacklist out stuff to do with the hacker, right? well, Are we going to react? Are we not going to react? the first proposal was a soft fork, but it was just going to blacklist out stuff to do with the hacker, right? to, like, blacklist out stuff to do with the hacker, right?

[51:35] SPEAKER_00:
And they did do that soft fork, right? I remember they did that soft fork first. This other bytecode. And also, yeah, I think the moving was consolidating the child DAOs. I think that's what that was doing. So it's like move the money from the child DAOs back into the parent DAO And change the bytecode. I think if block equals this, do a horrible thing. Block equals this, do a horrible thing.

[51:39] SPEAKER_02:
the code was done for it. and I think it might even have gone on test nets and things, but it never went live. okay. Because it was spotted that it was a denial of service attack. got it. Because that blacklisting was like, you know, not accounted for in the crypto economics. So it was like, yeah, you had a denial of service attack thing on that soft fork. So it got done and then it got undone. and then the hard fork was like, okay, well we can, we can go in and we can do an irregular state transaction, uh, where at a certain block, you know, you're just gonna have a hard coded thing, which sticks different, uh, bytecode into, uh, into the address of the, of the DAO. which is like, okay, yeah, that thing, it didn't happen. What's actually at that address is a simple refund thing where you can all get your money back. So that was the doubt hard fork.

[52:53] SPEAKER_04:
just wanted to ask where where were you at this time i know you got involved um i believe later with etc because it didn't exist yet um and so you know how in terms of your personal perspective on all this you're actually implementing it anything um yourself because obviously you've got pretty deep knowledge of the technical uh internals um technical internals.

[53:17] SPEAKER_02:
Yes, i was working for the foundation. i was on the C team at that point. this was about three or four months after I'd started. the thing that was really interesting to me was how different people's thoughts or perspectives were, even within the foundation. that you'd have people, say, working on Geth, going, well, of course we shouldn't do anything. well, of course we should. and it's like, you know, I've been working with you for a year. like, what? you think that? like, what? you know, you have this real mixture of reactions. and i mean, my first reaction was, well, you know, of course you don't do anything. like, it's an immutable blockchain., the whole point. like, you know, you don't like the outcome. well, you know, tough titties. you know, you've seen so many, you know, like Mt. Gox. you know, Mt. Gox, you didn't have the Bitcoiners going, you know, let's try and fix this up. or, you know, and i think the only reason it happened was because of the scale of it. that it was a significant chunk of the entire ETH money base. and also, i think that things weren't super great on funding and it wasn't like Ethereum was sure to succeed. it was quite nascent at that point. and i know that there were also worries about the proof of stake transition and the fact that if you had a large amount of of the ether in this is theft, right? that money was intended for building the ecosystem and stuff like that um, but also i think there was just, you know,, lot of people were like, well, you know, this is theft,, but you also, that money was, for building the ecosystem and, you know, some guys come in and stolen it. and if we can fix that at the foundation many more months after that anyway. but there was this real schism. though i think from what i saw,, but i also, it was like, well, you know, whatever, that seems to be the consensus that we do it, you know, and Okay, off we go. though i wasn't at the foundation many more months after that anyway. but there was this real schism. though i think from what i saw, i think probably about 85 of people wanted to do the hard fork and 15 didn't. or maybe 80 20. but i think there was pretty strong consensus to do it. but that was, you know, money anyway for that was a messaging that had been given out at the time know, that no lot of people that have got involved with Ethereum have done so because they kind of wanted smart, you know, Bitcoin with smart contracts. and if you're of that Bitcoin y mindset, then, you know, like, of course you don't, you know, don't screw with things. but but i is there's also this larger group that were money well ether isn't money anyway like that was a messaging that had been given out at the time it's like no no it's fuel right it's fuel for the engine though i think part of that is it like a bug in the liability but but you know that was also true as well you know this whole world computer know here's a platform right you know it's a platform like the web or android so i think it was sort of like that that was the mental split is like is it money and if it's money you don't move people's monies without private keys like you know that's that's a mortal sin and on the other side you're like well no it's a bug right it's a bug in the platform and it's like well but it's but it was a bug in the smart contract well you know if you've worked on serious software projects you know people hack on the wrong layers all the time right because it's going to give you a better user experience like you know you don't have to be you know pure on that it's really about how the thing works so you know you get hacks in the wrong layers all the time um and if if you're just seeing it as a software platform then yeah it's a bug you fix the bug

[57:59] SPEAKER_00:
so it's rare in life that you can actually see a counterfactual but in this case we can because etc was created at that time and kind of emerged out of that so like um you know can you talk a little bit about that and how is that gone because you're deep into that ecosystem obviously as the you know director of the ethereum classic cooperative like how does it work now like you know what how did those words divide that we commonly see in the space. because if you want whatever the fastest chain or the most money or whatever, yeah, that's not going to be etc. it can never be etc. but for people that are interested, that's not the goal, right? They, you know, they're looking for something which is basically like Bitcoin plus smart contracts, you know, with that kind of strong non intervention kind of bias. and also proof of work, you know, a lot of people see, you know, real value in proof of work and are very skeptical of proof of stake systems. so, you know. it's not a winner takes all.

[58:27] SPEAKER_02:
um and then you know how are those words continuing so over that month or so right Where it's like you know the money's been stolen into the sub down are we going to do anything you know you have the most um you know vigorous going to happen platforms right you know It was the the topic you know What's going to happen how's It going to go and everything right so you know I don't think There's anyone that was like unaware of this stuff happening you know it's very very everyone with their eyes open um, But yeah, you know, you just, you just have this group of people kind of gathering. and it's like, No, you know, we're not gonna go with It. this is not gonna happen. or, or to least like, you know, we're not following that Hard fall. Maybe people do, But you know, a bunch of people deciding not,, um, the other thing I thought was Really interesting at the time and was to my mind, the, the best thing of all about that chain split is to that point, I don't think There's ever been a minority chain that survived, right? the standard thinking is like, you're going to have a winning side and a losing side. and, you know, it's going to happen and we'll the where's the thing, you know, Where are the people going, which is the winner and then the losers, you know, Well, you know, people will stop mining, It will just die, right? because it's the loser chain. so There's No economic value There and, you know, forget It. But What actually happened on the ATC side is, you know, you had miners that were like, Well, you know, just going to keep on and then I'm not updating, you know. you know, some of It going, you know, the evil Ethereum foundation and, you know, Vitalik's a dictator. you know, I mean, I don't think any of that's true. But you have got people that were like, No, I'm going to keep going. and then, Oh, look, block production's still going and, you know, it's still happening There. uh and then poloniex listed It and then it's got a market value and then you've got speculative activity around that you've got ether holders like dumping their ETC you know it's hey it's free money um But also you've got other people on the other side going Well you know I see real value. and like this ETC is going cheap so you know noticeably notably barry silbert who first non bit in Ethereum to that, presumably like based on pre mine and various other things But was like Well Oh actually like you know an immutability focused dtc uh, know would be would be Really interesting so yeah you just got this sort of grassroots thing forming you got volunteers jumping up saying, hey, I'm a developer, I'll keep maintaining the classic Geth clients and so on. and It found its own legs There. you had like the Ethereum subreddit was like a primary communication platform at that point. and then you had like an Ethereum classic one being created and some people in you know, one side, some on the other, But, you know, It got quite bitter in the end, right? you know, you've got a lot of people that were like, you know, foundation, you guys, you just ruined, you know, you've just ruined the project. um, and you had people, um, on the other side, seeing is seeing ETC as Really illegitimate, I know, as saying, Well, look, you, you know, it's just a money grab. you just want your free money. um, why are these Bitcoiners kind of coming over like they weren't interested in Ethereum before and now they are like that's not you know uh you know that's that's not good and you did obviously have a bunch of speculators in There as Well so that's all a bit nasty too um But I think, thing that like suffered those communities then finally was this like 100 F meme which came about because somebody tweeted, hey, Vitalik, I hear that you're working on Ethereum classic. is There any truth to this? and he., No, I'm only working on Ethereum. and the person then said, Well, What if ETC had more market cap than Ethereum? and he said, No, I still wouldn't work on It. 100 F like he wasn't saying It in a purity pledge way he was just in the way he does being just making a factual statement But then I remember you know Joe replied you know I'm 100 F and then it's like everyone's doing It right it's this purity pledge you know everyone is expected to you know pledge allegiance to air so It became a, you know, Oh, shit, is this an either or? like, you can't be in both. like, if you're interested in ETC, then, you know, you're a dirty person. so I think that Really wedged It, you know, wedged It permanently apart at that point. and also, you know, a number was the people that were volunteering on,, you know, they were Really angry. they were like, you know, Well, like, you know, been involved for, two two and a bit years in this project you know Really pumped about everything that you can do with Ethereum and that you guys have you know wrecked It so There was a lot of you know bitterness from that ETC side back um But then you know things kind of split apart and and over time ETC you know found its own path so with the real differentiation being Well, firstly, the DAO hack didn't happen. that was the only initial difference a very rapidly, though, There was this conclusion that fixed economic policy was needed. you know, the ETC was Really like Bitcoin with Ethereum technology, But, you know, Bitcoin, you know, culture and ethos. so it's like, right, you know, There's No fixed monetary policy for Ethereum. I mean, you see this over many years. There's like, you know, change of, change of block rewards, ice age, delays, fee burning, you know, many, many changes. so that was the first kind of like major change on the ETC side was introduction of that fixed monetary policy, because There was consensus that that was an important, you know, that was like bad inheritance that we want to fix. and the other thing that that enabled was the grayscale ETC fund. so at that point it's like right Okay this is Really a Bitcoin feeling thing and you know There's a feeling that There's There's a value here so then from from that grayscale then created the uh btc cooperative that I work from you know so a share of the fees went into that kind of not quite a foundation But a bit like a foundation you know a non profit to support the ecosystem and then the other thing more recently is just proof of work. you know, There was sort of fairly rapidly a consensus that ETC wanted to stick with proof of work indefinitely, But that proof of state was seen as a, you know, as a centralising, oligarchic kind of thing that didn't Really fit with that ethos. But more:, ETC is tracking protocol changes in Ethereum, you know, very compatible. 1: 06: 09 SPEAKER_00: so There have been forks, But not the Hard fork along the way, because... Well, so yeah, I mean, Hard forks, But not chain splits. got It. Okay. 1: 06: 21 SPEAKER_02: in the all protocol updates on Ethereum as Well, you know, They're all Hard forks. and the old side doesn't actually go away. you could run a Frontier node if you wanted. you can mine. Frontier, mine the Olympic testnet, mine any of these ones. it's just you have had the wither and die because There hasn't been contention. But on ETC, you have sufficient contention that you had a chain split. But yeah, I guess that's sort of a Bitcoin. forks are bad, But it's like, consensuous Hard forks are bad. Hard forks are an upgrade mechanism for the protocol. 1: 07: 07 SPEAKER_01: yeah. I mean, I remember I had to implement that fork a few years ago and It was pretty blatant. It was just like, take money from here and place It here: by the way, It didn't bug me. But we had people in the block apps who thought of It as like a stab to the back. they the like so upset by It. 1: 07: 27 SPEAKER_02: Well, I mean, it's literally here's an array of addresses, right? to fuck with. Yep. 1: 07: 32 SPEAKER_01: I remember that was, I don't remember What else was in There, But I remember like the majority of It was just like, take a bunch of money and put It into these addresses. and that was the fork. 1: 07: 42 SPEAKER_02: yeah. you know, for this list of addresses, replace, you know, It was, yeah, you know, replace the bytecode with this other bytecode. and also, yeah, I think the moving was consolidating the child DAOs. I think that's What that was doing. so it's like move the money from the child DAOs back into the parent DAO and change the bytecode. I think if block equals this, do a horrible thing. 1: 08: 13 SPEAKER_00: in the UTC world Where the DAO hack happened, are those fun? did the hacker pull out those funds the Okay. 1: 08: 27 SPEAKER_02: yeah. interesting. yeah. I mean, again, Laura Shin has a great write up of all of this in her book, the Cryptopians, including working out who It probably was. 1: 08: 40 SPEAKER_00: Oh, wow. Okay. 1: 08: 42 SPEAKER_02: so she didn't name names in the book, But then she did an article like on the release day or just before uh naming who she thinks It was so that's an interesting story I can I'll I'll dig out that article and send It to you guys so you can add It to the uh description here cool and But you know Bob you're a natural born bridge builder as we said you get along with everyone do you ever see the you know uh Valley between Ethereum and Ethereum classic narrowing or getting better or do you think It is getting better um I mean the problem that Ethereum classic has always had from the time of the split and It comes back to money again like I think that was the one thing that the foundation did wrong um you know like not not talking about the developers or the decision on that or whatever was to only put the money on one side. because What that did is disenfranchised a good chunk of people who had invested in the pre sale,. been part of that community, who'd that been actively involved for those first two years. and they were just left in the dust. it's like, and you guys. we don't care What you think. Goodbye. and the trademark's going this way and all the funds are going this way. and all the developers went that way as Well. and I mean, obviously the foundation couldn't control that, What people choose to work on. But What that meant is effectively that group of people got defunded, like totally done. I'm sorry, my child, I disavow you and I'll kick you out of the house forever and we shall never talk to you again. you know, I think in retrospect, It should have been like was Okay, funding is available for the fork as Well. and you May hate us, you know, and not want to talk to us. But you know, I guess it's like, you know, a child, you know, whatever teenager, I'm, fuck you dad, I'm leaving home. and it's like Okay I'm not going to stop putting aside savings and money for you I you know you might not love me now But you know I'm you're my. too and you know we'll find a thing of making It happen you know because say with the c cooperative you know It could have been Well when that came into you know into existence the foundation could have gone Well Okay you know like here's a body that can help and There you go we're going to fund the as Well and. so something a little tiny bit like that with Virgil. so Virgil was also a huge bridge builder between Ethereum and Ethereum classic. so in 2018, he invited Anthony Busardi, who was my predecessor, to speak at EDCON. so this was May 2018. and that was the first Ethereum classic talk at an Ethereum event. It had been nearly two years at that point. and It was fine and It was cool and everyone was friendly. and Vitalik and various others came to that talk and It was all kind of friendly. and Anthony invited me to Ethereum Plastics Summit, which was in September 2018. so myself and Virgil went and spoke at that event. and around that time, Virgil they somehow they found some ETC that the foundation still had you know generally they did a market dump at that time um But There was some stuff that they found you know so it's like 50 grand or something like that and so we got that donated to the co op which was great that was a that was a Really nice nice kind of thing But you know It was kind of like here's a little gesture But Really, I think that was a real failing because It was a legitimate, irreconcilable difference. But It was made even worse by this 100 the purity pledge combined again with all the money's gone. so you end up with, very small community of mainly people who are very ideologically outraged. buy It. if you've got speculative token holders, obviously They're going to stick with Ethereum. What's this other thing? this new thing and There's nothing. so that's always been the issue that ETCs had is lack of money and interest, Really. more recently, we've had support from Bitmain after the merge with Ethereum moving to proof of stake. all of a sudden, ETC is one of the larger mining ecosystems. so all of a sudden, we're very aligned with Bitmain. they want to sell ASICs. they want to be using Antpool for mining. so They're supporting a grant program now. But yeah, ETC, it's small. 1: 14: 17 SPEAKER_00: But you have you know you have some people and that's you know that's their that's What they want yeah and as you said like you know like it's broken mode of like sidechain surviving right like It Really like you know these It it's possible you know um Oh sorry go ahead Karen. wanted to talk quickly about you know this the definition of success for blockchains 1: 14: 43 SPEAKER_04: market caps um and. that sort of thing and I was looking today because so durian's market cap is in the 200 billions um durian classic is still at number 28 which is quite impressive and is you know 2. 6 billion in market cap I think market cap is probably more of an indicator of popularity than anything rather sort of truly long term you know it's not quite like 1: 15: 12 SPEAKER_02: with companies Where market cap is probably a better indicator of how important they are But It is also still and then if you look yeah if you look in coin gecko so Ethereum classic is higher than cosmos than filecoin than hedera than internet computer than than aptos than lido um the near than optimism, than arbitrum, than the graph. 1: 15: 46 SPEAKER_04: and so I wanted to follow, is market cap a good goal? What is your goal for ETC? if you were trying to make up the gap with Ethereum, would you do anything differently? 1: 16: 01 SPEAKER_02: I mean, I think. do that, you just need vast investment into application layer. I mean, I think that's somewhere Where ETC Really can't compete with many other VC chains that have huge treasuries that can be spending tens or hundreds of millions on grant programs. we can't compete that way. But also, as you say, it's a bit of a vanity metric in a way. There are many other vanity metrics that we commonly see in the space. because if you want whatever the fastest chain or the most money or whatever, yeah, that's not going to be ETC. It can never be ETC. But for people that are interested, that's not the goal, right? they, you know, They're looking for something which is basically like Bitcoin plus smart contracts, you know, with that kind of strong non intervention kind of bias. and also proof of work, you know, a lot of people see, you know, real value in proof of work and are very skeptical of proof of stake systems. so, you know. it's not a winner takes all. 1: 17: 29 SPEAKER_04: it's been interesting just how not a winner takes all the blockchain space has been, They're. cockroaches. they just kind of keep going. I know they get delisted occasionally, But let's see how many pages you can get to. can we call them tree clippings? 1: 17: 48 SPEAKER_00: yeah. 20, 000 is the figure I've heard. 1: 17: 53 SPEAKER_02: yeah. 20, 000 live chains. 1: 17: 55 SPEAKER_00: yeah. 1: 17: 56 SPEAKER_04: that's quite a number and very interesting in and of itself. Victor, you were saying something when I made my comment. 1: 18: 04 SPEAKER_00: Oh, No, No, No. I was just saying I was going to ask you more questions about the early days of EEA, But I think we will have to invite you back because I'm pretty sure we could have another 90 minute conversation on that. But it's been interesting. great to have you Bob as always you're always been a great friend and a wealth of information on the space so thank you for joining us and we hope you'll come back again soon 1: 18: 35 SPEAKER_02: Well, thank you. and sorry for monopolizing me. 1: 18: 39 SPEAKER_04: No, that's why you're here. your story, we've told plenty of ours. I see on other podcasts, should we send people anywhere? Where can people find you? do you want them to find you, et cetera? 1: 18: 56 SPEAKER_02: yeah, I can drop you some links afterwards. But yeah, my own website is bobsonworld. com. ethereumplastic. org is the main sort of landing page for ECC. 1: 19: 11 SPEAKER_04: Awesome. Fantastic. Well, thank you very much. Really appreciate your time. and I'm sure we will follow up. we'll put our heads together and do another one. 1: 19: 20 SPEAKER_00: Yes, we'll have to have a round two. There's plenty more stories that we haven't even touched on yet. 1: 19: 28 SPEAKER_04: Okay. Cheers, guys. Cheers.

[00:00] SPEAKER_04:
All righty. Well, thanks, everyone, for coming back. We've done a couple of videos. So we've done two on the early days of Etheria, and I actually did another video on identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. In the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwell. So Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in depth in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. Wrote a long blog post that you should check out and we'll link in the notes. We asked him to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro and we can just kind of get into it.

[00:57] SPEAKER_02:
So, yeah, hi, you know, thanks so much for the invite. You know, like I said to you guys, you know, I love those first two videos. You know, I love this history and it was great to you know, both hear that and have, you know, a slightly different perspective as well. You know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So, you know, there are a few things that came up, which I, you know, I wasn't myself aware of. I mean, just for everyone's background about me and who I am. So I I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really like kind of jumped in. And that happened because I was, I was working in Toronto. I had a six month contract and was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainland launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but, you know, just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude, more stuff going on and meetups and Anthony Di Iorio's Bitcoin Decentral co-working space and everything. So I got really very addicted. through that year and it's like right I can't not get involved right it's like it's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever and you've you know you you've met Tim Berners-Lee and he's about to like go live on the web and it's like you know how could you not like want to get involved so I just started uh sort of volunteering um and helping my background prior to that was in the games industry so like 15 years of C5 15 years of C++. So I was like, well, you know, I can do something with CPP Ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself is, you know, can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? You know, could you get a smartwatch and go around and like, bing, there's some money, you know, that'd be really cool. So, so yeah, I just started doing stuff on there. That was about the time that Gav was part in company with, with the foundation as well. So there was kind of a dearth of people on that team. So, you know, like that period, I ended up being like, I think the only person in the world who was actually helping on that, like, you know, no companies, no, no, nobody was helping. And then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I've been involved on Ethereum, Enterprise Ethereum, Hyperledger, and more recently, Ethereum Classic for nearly a decade now.

[03:57] SPEAKER_00:
yeah Bob I I well and to be open to everyone like we're old friends um and we're happy to have you as our first guest boost on this thing but also you are like uh you know the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum ecosystem you you're friends with everyone you know you go you've been in everywhere so it's great to have your perspective on things thank you so i and friend as karen has mentioned for anyone who hasn't seen bob's blog post it's uh notionally a bar post almost a full novel probably a novella size it has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about um you dug up so much content out of there were those your personal pictures it's just stuff yeah yeah just stuff i i i had i mean another thing here is

[04:53] SPEAKER_02:
There's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was, there's one called Ethereum Foundation People and one called Ethereum Foundation Timeline. So I made those in late 2017, early 2018, because there was no canonical history of any of this. It's like, how did Ethereum start? I mean, it's in people's heads, it's all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around, but, you know, it's like, what's true, what isn't? Because I think, especially on that, like, foundation side, it was such a mess, right? Just like, all different people weren't getting on, blowing up, kind of like, parity versus the foundation, and Charles, you know, and like, God, what, you know, so... it I think some people had almost taken this um position of like we don't talk about that right right because anything I say like it's going to offend somebody else so just la la la it doesn't matter that you know um but uh but yeah so I started gathering that list of well you know who were the people that were around in the pre-foundation days and then in that and um So yeah, I've got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. So that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum pre-foundation or who worked for the foundation in those early years. And one of the things that's really great there is DevCon0, October 2014 so that was the very first devcom but it was a closed event that wasn't a public event yeah and it was it was foundation people at that time but there were also you know some other key Community sorts of people there as well and they did this one thing at the start that was introductions so there's this video that's about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody like party I'm here doing you know proof of state research just see these these you know so young so many people that you know like really early 20s yeah you know and turning up and it's like that's you know that's so and so right and some of these people as well you know they they're not involved anymore you know they're they're sort of like footnotes in history but but but you have that record and uh So, yeah, that list of people, I got all of that together. And the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, hey, I hear Ming's been sacked at the foundation. Do you know anything about this?

[07:57] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[07:58] SPEAKER_02:
And I said, well, no, I don't. but it wouldn't surprise me but uh you know basically it would be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you but like nobody nobody else could tell you anyway and you know it sort of came out well yeah she's you know she's not been sacked but she's agreed to leave right and then it's like well what's what's next so I contacted Vitalik and said you know hey is there anything I can do to help you know what can I do you know and he said well the one thing you can do is can you like try and talk to people and work out like you know what would good look like what the people think a good ethereum Foundation would look like and so that started my sort of Adventure really of like right I'm going to go and talk to all the founders all the other people and try and work out like you know what what And then that just turned into really a thought experiment on my side of like, okay, so my mind being was terrible. So how did she get hired? What was going on, whatever, two and a half years back that that looked like a good option? How did it work before? How did the foundation come about? what were the group of leaders and like what were all the dynamics between all of these people. So yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there and that was the sort of the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I've found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time.

[09:47] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. well and also it's to your point is that I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about you know like everything works smooth but innovation is messy you know it's messy and it's like you know there are a million and one different paths that things could have went to and we just want to kind of acknowledge all that like you know like given where the ecosystem is today and even though you know it's amazing to me that so many people know about it that later I spent we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain and no one you know everyone just glaze over right so it's it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point oh Went a little bit farther than that. We'll just go with it.

[10:37] SPEAKER_02:
One of the things that I know that Vitalik said, and again, it was maybe in Laura Shin's book, was like the founding of Ethereum was very atypical. Because it was essentially like, here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested. and it's like basically like first people that turn up right you're the founders like you know a number of them they'd you know they'd not even met each other before you know not really a lot of knowledge um and so yeah like there were lots of um interpersonal things that just didn't work at all it's just like no like founding a company, and I'm sure you guys have this experience yourself, right? You want to start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know that you're going through the fire together. So you better have some stickability with you and common alignment or at least Um, knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right. And you, you know, you know that you can work it out. Yeah. And what seems to happen on the theory was absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just random bunch of people who were there didn't really know each other, like.

[12:06] SPEAKER_04:
make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing right yeah and so that didn't work so great and I think also let me actually I wanted to ask about that I'm also just looking at the list of the ethereum Foundation people which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was You know, we talk about this because we're a management team and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefits to this level of you could call it disorganization or just, you know, I kind of think if there were a benefit and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it embodied the ethos and it let people, like Vitalik put the idea out there and then people fought for its destiny. Like Ethereum existed and then they wanted to be part of taking it to, and he saw the clients and all that too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead.

[13:09] SPEAKER_00:
going to say it kind of worked like a blockchain works in fact yeah lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things and then they fight it out but what's that law that organization technology reflects the organization yeah something like that like yes sorry yeah i mean i i i guess in general yes you know having that like frothing emergent

[13:37] SPEAKER_02:
like stuff is is good I think where it was really screwed though was to do with money and and you know the ICO funding right that it's basically like okay here we're doing the thing and here the money is all actually in this organizational group and the people in that group are being funded you know are in this privileged position um it's something which Brian Bellendorf said to me in later years was it's sort of like the original sin of ethereum is if you want to have that kind of collaboration so you know whatever stuff like the EA and hyperledger or even just you know the rather looser protocol development around ethereum you don't want to pay one team and not the others because that just screws that battlefield so um You have this situation, for example, where you've got the C++ client and you've got a Gath. You did have a Python client as well. So you have that good triangulation, but it was essentially like the funded ones were C++ and Go. And then they have the money crisis of like, oh, my God, is this thing even going to happen? Right. We got cut scope. C++ is gone. Gab ends up going out of the way. And then you have parity. you know, having one of the major clients, but without funding. So it's like, oh, Geth, that's the, you know, that's the favored child, right? You know, that's the, it's not like the official client, but it is the official client. So all that sort of like separation of implementation versus specification and, you know, and that free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth Gary Hedges- And get rid of the foundation and they've got you know metallics kind of blessing and everything, so I think that's where things were great. Gary Hedges- Because you did have the diversity, but it wasn't fair diversity, and I think if you look at what's happening now on. the consensus clients for, I was gonna say Ethereum 2, it's not called Ethereum 2 anymore, but you know, the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation. The foundation doesn't have client teams. They do funding, like they've got the grants, and I think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients. So that's kind of centralization in a way, But it is an even playing field in terms of the development, right? Because you've got an evenness of funding and that wasn't the case, you know, originally for Ethereum. And I think that made a lot of bitterness as well, because it's like, well, why have you guys got the money? Like, we're making another one as well. Or, you know, other parts of the ecosystem. Like, there wasn't a grants program for a number of years. Between about 2015 and 2018, there wasn't even a grants program.

[16:48] SPEAKER_04:
know you've got the foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars and teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything so uh so yeah i think the diversity is good but the money was bad interesting yeah i i think all right okay that's a it's a good strong point so if you compare to like a bitcoin which i know less about the history of the development of bitcoin but it was kind of similar there was less of a there was no pre-mine and no token pre-sale. And so the people who were in it were in it for general interest and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I would argue, you know, In some ways, Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, you know, let's say 2015, some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes. And that's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it's, I think, you know, been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

[18:06] SPEAKER_02:
Another major difference there talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision, right, on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients. And there were multiple clients from day one. I see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for PyEthereum, PyF app, or PyEthereum as it was, CPP Ethereum and GoEthereum. And they were all, um, I think they were all November or December. I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three. Yeah. Um, and then Ethereum J looked like it started in about April, I think, but you know, yeah, Jim, Karen, you guys started Ethereum H in 2014.

[18:56] SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, we were much later. We were, um, when did we get deployed? Quarter 2014. Yeah. That sounds about right.

[19:07] SPEAKER_04:
And I had worked on the theory just in the summer. So starting kind of maybe June, 2014, I got to know the project pretty well. And then I had gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that. And then we started work more or less right away, more Jim than me. But, um, so yeah, so there was a big time delay on, on our side. And yeah, I think, okay, yeah, Bob, it's an interesting point, right? I think probably they could have, you know, there was some real mismanagement at different times, both with the running out of funds, not doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people. And it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously, we're talking about a smashing success here, but it's sort of... the idea and the community was so powerful that it, you know, there's definitely succeeded in spite of aspect. I think there was value still in this, like, throw it out there, get people to fight over it.

[20:20] SPEAKER_02:
but it it probably over corrected and lots of these people also just went and started their own thing I mean the other thing is right at the start there it's like well the people that are doing it that was the whole world right you know that was everything right was uh several months I mean all of that early work on the clients actually was before the foundation even existed that was actually unfunded yeah um Because I'm looking at the dates. So the white paper came out in November 2013. Pyre theorem was started on November the 19th, 2013. Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. CPP Ethereum started four days later, 23rd of December. Obviously some over Christmas hacking on these things going on. And then GoEthereum was December the 26th. So just three further days. The foundation got formed, I think, in May. April or May 2014, but the crown sale didn't conclude until September 2014. So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So I think that unfairness kind of came in a little bit later. I think for that phase, it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry. You know, nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback, right? You know, when the crown sale had gone through, you had, you know, money for early contributors, which I think that was nearly 10%. Yeah. For like 100, 120 people. Like some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months. Yeah. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual, you know, staff onto those teams. And that, I think, is when it became kind of uneven because you already had Ethereum J for a number of months there and that, you know, that never got funded. And then you and then you guys starting whenever you were starting. So, yeah, it kind of became uneven, I think, at that point. And probably the worst of it of all was for Parity, when that team spun out and you basically did have a major, rapidly load-bearing client, and it was just unfunded, especially with Gav, who was

[23:09] SPEAKER_02:
I think what had happened there that gav was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition And then he left, was it's like, right, let's try And make this modular. We're going to try And do a modular thing And pull apart the networking And the database And this, that And the other. but it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these. so you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway. you couldn't mix And match because there was no versioning, there was no interplace discipline on any of it. you had to use all the latest ones together, but then it was all split into these separate repos. so it's like, right, you're making a change on one of them And then whatever, updating the submodules And like, like that wasn't atomic it was it was just a big old mess um so yeah one of the first things I did was like you know work out info infer a dependency diagram um map a path to pulling it all back into a into a monolithic workspace um doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have um And specifically decoupling um so for solc for example because it was tied in with this our build it was like compiling chromium from source twice compiling qt all of this stuff so just to get you know And there weren't binaries available for solc either like you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to like compile you know a smart contract to do anything you have to do all of that so I remember you know after all that decomposition I, you know, I got it. so you could just do solc. And, you know, that was a quick build. And then I did like homebrew. And it's like, so you could do like brew install solc And it did it in like five seconds. And everyone's like, oh my god, this is amazing. but yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

[23:46] SPEAKER_02:
I'm not sure they did, you know. Maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money ran out before it happened. I mean, my understanding in terms of uptake as well is CPP Ethereum go ethereum just like caught up and overtook it like really fast uh so when they were making those decisions on cutting funding which would have been mid 2015 it's like hey gabby you're the cto but it's your code base that's got a copy and then that's what happened and

[24:29] SPEAKER_01:
I mean, I was, I was sort of building, uh, the various clients quite a bit, cuz I was trying to integrate with them at the time. And my memory was that the C plus plus client had all the newest stuff in it first. So if I wanted to see something first, I would go there, but the go client was more stable. Like because I think because they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client, it was often an unstable situation. And so I would typically kind of go to C++ first to see the new stuff. But if it wasn't building that day, I would run over to go and try it out.

[25:00] SPEAKER_02:
Yeah, I mean, and that would make complete sense because the other thing to know with the C++ client is that that was where the test suites were done. know like all the all the tests were generated out of that code base so as you say all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first then you do the test generation through that and then those were the tests for uh for other clients so even when cpp ethereum as a client like died it didn't die within that testing suite for years it's like right even though nobody's actually like running this or using it on mainnet or anything you know we've got to keep we've got to keep maintaining that one because that's where the tests are coming from um so yeah that that front line was really like leading across solci the tests and cpp ethereum you know all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the GUI apps like with mix and Aleph zero Alice one out of five It took 24 hours to build the bloody thing. But that will be because it was all around Gav, right? You know, Gav was leading all of that, you know, he was building that client, he was writing the yellow paper, he was You know, Working there with Christian and Christoph on that specification and testing stuff like that, you know, all of that was there. And then on Jeff's side, you know, just doing Geth, right? It wasn't a broader thing. And that Geth team were working closer with Mist, you know, with Avsaron Mist. Like for a good while, I don't think CPP Ethereum even worked with Mist. You know, it's like all these groups not really talking to each other. But yeah, that would make sense. Like a lot of it was GAV-led.

[27:08] SPEAKER_00:
And wait, so C, the Solidity compiler, that was part of that C++ group too? Yeah. That makes sense because it's written in C++. Yeah.

[27:21] SPEAKER_02:
It was all under Web3 umbrella. Web3 umbrella, yes.

[27:24] SPEAKER_00:
I remember Web3 Umbrella. I remember Web3 Umbrella, yes.

[27:28] SPEAKER_02:
So yeah, Web3 Umbrella was a Git repo with sub repos for, you know, for F, it was called F, it was just called F, the executable. So you had F and again, but yeah, you had F, you had Sol C. You had Mix, which was the original IDE. Yes. Cute client. You had Aleph0, which was the GUI miner. Yeah. So it's like, right here, here's a good press the mine button. And then you had Aleph1, which was sort of, I guess it was like, kind of like a GUI client runner thing I can't remember the exact scope but but it was sort of like right you're running a node but you kind of got a GUI on it and I can't remember what it had but you know whatever logs going by and I guess you could like fiddle with settings or whatever um but yeah all of that was in web3 umbrella um that's a lot yeah and all of the depend they were all really test and the tests as well right right but then they were all really codependent I mean when I started one of the first things I did was like what are the dependencies on all of these things like what is all of this stuff because you have like libraries with it as well it's like lib ethereum lib web bay web3 base

[29:02] SPEAKER_04:
Yeah. Dev P2P, live P2P. There was documentation all over the place.

[29:10] SPEAKER_02:
I think what had happened there that Gab was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition and then he left, was it's like, right, let's try and make this modular. We're going to try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this, that and the other. but it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these. So you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway. You couldn't mix and match because there was no versioning, there was no interplace discipline on any of it. You had to use all the latest ones together, but then it was all split into these separate repos. So it's like, right, you're making a change on one of them and then whatever, updating the submodules and like, like that wasn't atomic it was it was just a big old mess um so yeah one of the first things I did was like you know work out info infer a dependency diagram um map a path to pulling it all back into a into a monolithic workspace um doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have um and specifically decoupling um so for solstice for example because it was tied in with this our build it was like compiling chromium from source twice compiling qt all of this stuff so just to get you know and there weren't binaries available for solci either like you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to like compile you know a smart contract to do anything you have to do all of that so i remember you know after all that decomposition I, you know, I got it. So you could just do Sol-C. And, you know, that was a quick build. And then I did like homebrew. And it's like, so you could do like brew install Sol-C and it did it in like five seconds. And everyone's like, oh my God, this is amazing. But yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

[31:31] SPEAKER_00:
I I do remember waiting like you know many times trying to build things coming back looking at it saying like this can't be like my machine's got to be broken because like it can't be this long it can't be like eight hours like nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do you know but you're right you know talking about that you know creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything

[31:58] SPEAKER_02:
one of my first observations on joining the the foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism because that's seen as you know in an organized way well you're one of the baddies you know you're the status quo you're trying to subvert it and take it over you know things as simple as like like you know have we got like technical leads that actually lead have we got any project management? Have we got any IT? Have we got anything? And it's like, no, it's just like a jumble of people doing stuff. And it's like, how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment? But that was kind of the vibe as well. That was seen as a good thing. Because that's a defensive cultural thing, right? We don't We don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing.

[32:56] SPEAKER_04:
I just have a comment. It's interesting, and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos. One of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from the United States, it's Canada. It's different parts of Europe. And one of those confusing things, Bob, to your point about who got paid for the clients on the foundation. I remember there being a deal struck with Zug, the Canton basically around it. There was tax stuff and all that sort of thing. But they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally. People would either move there or they'd hire ETH Zurich grads or whatever. And I don't know the details specifically, but I think that didn't quite end up happening that way. And sort of as a surprise, and I saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which Amir and Charles were sent on their way, the client team set up in their own countries. And that was a bit of a script flip. Gavin wanted to be in Berlin because I guess the devs were good and expensive and to be living there. Inexpensive, excuse me. And Yeah, I think it's just, you know, you would, running my own business, you would never make such a decision in such a flip manner where like overnight, we're like, oh, we're doing a different country, you know. But that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent, major things changing, you know, as part of how the foundation plus sort of operated that I saw. And again, it didn't seem to hurt, you know, quite as much as you might expect. But yeah, but I think, you know, you, you had to have, you were lucky in how people were, how excited people were about the project that, that survived all of this. Um, and again, from our side, you know, we're sitting in the Bay area at that time and we're like, why, why do they keep doing all of these things? Like they're, they're trying to build a thousand things and it's hard to build one thing.

[35:09] SPEAKER_02:
Um, yeah, I mean, so there, there were separate legal entities for those as well. Right. So you have F dev AG. in Berlin and then there was an Amsterdam thing for the guest team. You had the London stuff as well, which was mainly communications sort of stuff with Stefan and George Hallam, Ian Meikle and one other person who I forget. But, you know, you sort of talk about, you know, these people working for the Ethereum Foundation, but it was always woolier than that. So, yeah, you did have the shtipung in Zoog, but most people, even if they're working full-time, they weren't actually working for that, you know. So when I had my contract, it was with the for-profit FDev, in Berlin, that was who I was actually working for. And then they were funded by the foundation. And FDev in general, that was another big split that there was, right? Was you got the foundation, but then you had FDev that was like the kind of umbrella group for that, that Gav was leading essentially. So I think the Amsterdam thing rolled into Berlin. I think that was all sort of FDev side. And that in itself was a huge item of conflict, I know. Again, in Laura's book, I think Joe was talking about that, right? Was that Gav kind of wanted a big chunk of money. It's like, right, the funds are there from the Crown sale now, so give them all to us, right? And it's like, I don't know that we want to give you all the funds. as you go, but that was typical of that period is just a mess of complexity and interpersonal things and organizational complexity. And with that Swiss people thing, so my understanding on that was that was like a main motivation for getting renting that spaceship building, right? was the intention was that there were going to be a load of people there but like maybe it was I think tests testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal there is like right we're going to get a load of Swiss people to test things and there's also like Mihaly with his Holon ideas Holon of these co-working spacey things around the world

[37:53] SPEAKER_00:
And also to make it a little bit more earlier, like, you know, same time, like very shortly consensus emerged out of that too. And they were doing a bunch of work, you know, we were working, you know, we were technically working under consensus for, you know, the first little parts of it too. And all of that was like in the mix, you know, like everywhere. So... I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert. And in our last one, we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from SlotKit and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through that and how ETC emerged out of that. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on how those pieces all came together.

[38:41] SPEAKER_02:
Yeah. One of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of like shrinking of the foundation was that on that C++ team that got most of the cuts, a good chunk of those people went to, just went straight to parity and just like carried on with that new client. But Christoph Jentz, who had testing effort, we were just talking about those same tests. He and Stephan Toile, who had been community communications leader, that sort of thing, community stuff. And Lefteris, who'd also been on C++ team, those three went off and formed a company called Slockit. So Slockit being smart locks, just the idea that you You know, whatever, if you're doing an Airbnb or something that you can, you know, that you could have a smart lock and that you could go and do your contract with someone for, for the rental. And then that could be, you know, enabling something on the lot that's checking a, an Oracle or an on-chain thing and, and, and so on. Um, and so that, that was the, the, their, their product area at DEVCON one. they did like an onstage demo that was like a pot of, it was like a kettle, like a pot. Yeah, I remember that. Like doing a transaction that turned it on to make a cup of tea. Yeah. That was the onstage demo. But what seemed to happen there was like they didn't want to do an ICO. They wanted it to be fairer, I guess, because around that era, more later, you know, you saw lots of cash grab ICOs and it's like, right, here's all the money up front. You know, we're not going to live it. What are you going to do? Right. So they didn't want to do that, you know, because they were very genuine people who come out of the foundation and were, you know, kind of, you know, ideologically driven. So Vitalik had written stuff about DAOs, right? You know, I think they were mentioned in the white paper even. And it's like, well, maybe we can make a DAO. So, and I think that was just Slockit DAO really originally. And it was like, right, we're gonna have a DAO. The money's gonna go into there, but then it's only gonna get released to us as we deliver milestones. So it's kind of like this separation of like, right, the DAO is where the money is and that's controlled by the token holders. Slockit as a company is a service provider into that, but we're a sackable service provider and we're only going to get paid as we go through the milestones. So it's like, oh, that's really interesting. Yeah. And to my understanding, that's what was presented at DEVCON1.

[41:54] SPEAKER_00:
Okay.

[41:55] SPEAKER_02:
I remember was like, hey, with Slockit, this is what we're doing and we're going to do a DAO with it. And it's like, oh, cool. But then they kept working on that DAO stuff after DevCon 1, and it just seemed to warp into, well, we've made a DAO framework. It's a DAO library because we want other people to be able to do this as well. But then that sort of turned into, well, actually, how about it isn't just us? How about it could be anything? Anyone could have a service provider. You could propose anything into it. And then it became the DAO. Okay. And it wasn't capped. There was no cap on the contributions into it. There was really nothing else that you could do on Ethereum at that point. It was kind of like the first application, really. Well, I mean, you did have a few. You had DigX, this gold thing. You did have DAI, I think, was sort of coming to life just about at that point. But the DAO was kind of like the first big thing.

[43:03] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[43:04] SPEAKER_02:
And it just sort of snowballed and snowballed, right? Because it was also touted as zero risk because you could exit with your funds, right? If you didn't like the result of what was happening, you could just exit and have your F back. So it's kind of like, this is risk-free, right? It's like a sovereign bond or whatever, right? There's no downside here. This is risk-free. So tons of people are like, well, what else am I going to do? I'm just sitting here on my ether. I can't do anything. Well, pile on in. And the Ethereum crowd sale raised what is 16 million, I think, in Bitcoin, which was, I think it was number five crowd sale of all time. It was like comparing to Kickstarter projects. So it's like, maybe the Dow will do two or 3 million, maybe five. And it just went until it was just absolutely gigantic. And I remember at the time thinking, you know, this is, I don't like this, like the DAO, it's not, this is not a good idea. And the main reason I was thinking of that was, is this a security? Is this seen as, you know, money transfer stuff? Because you've got Slocket, the company, and then they have this thing called DAO Link, that was sort of a service company for paying people in real life. That was some Swiss thing, I think. Or what's Bitcoin Swiss? And then you have the DAO itself. You have the curators as well. So anyone could propose a smart contract that encoded their proposal, right? They would make a written description of the thing. And here's a smart contract doing it. And the curator's role was like to verify what they've sort of said in text is kind of what they've done. It was meant to be like, you know, this kind of administrative role. But what happened is all of those guys, that was their names and faces up on the website. So like DownHub website is just like a who's who of the Ethereum Foundation, basically. And it didn't say, you know, Christian Reitweissner, creator of Solidity. It said, Christian Wright-Weissner, Ethereum Foundation. Vitalik, Ethereum Foundation. So lots of people were like, this is an Ethereum Foundation project, right? Because you've all got your names on everything. So I thought, firstly, there was huge legal liability on those guys. Because where Slocket have got these layers of legal protection, these guys haven't. They're just doing it as individuals. And I remember Fabian... talking to me and talking to the group in the foundation is like, you know, I've been talking to some of my friends and they're like, you know, they don't think this is a great idea. And I'm thinking of talking to a lawyer and Gav backed out, right? A couple of weeks before the disaster, Gav just backed out. He's like, you know, this is, you know, this, this is not what I signed up for. I thought it was just a small role. And now it's like, Dan Campbell- presented as a lot more, and you know, so he he backed out a lot of the others didn't because because it was like well if we back out it's going to ruin it and it's like a great experiment. Dan Campbell- But I thought those huge liability to them, I thought there were legal risks and also just thought it was a stupid idea. Why would you have thousands of random people putting their money in a bucket and then let's vote on what to do with it? Right. Who are these people? What do they even know about a business proposal or anything? It's just like, this is a stupid idea. But I didn't have my eye on the fact that all of the tech stack was incredibly immature at that point, right?

[47:17] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[47:18] SPEAKER_02:
There's no best practices. There's no libraries. It's just here's some code.

[47:23] SPEAKER_00:
and and they just went all in right it was like code is law yeah contract you know the smart contract is the contract you know Yolo you can't stop us but but okay and then the hack happens right and and I remember the details of the hack being they found a flaw in the smart contract code and they could basically withdraw those funds into another account And I remember there was some kind of race between like the people at the DAO slash locket who are like using the same exploit to like drain the account, like using the same hack basically. Is that right?

[48:07] SPEAKER_02:
Yeah. So there was this reentrancy bug where it's really sort of like to do with atomic operations or order of operations so your re-entrancy was that you could be calling uh because people were supplying like their proposals and it's like hey here's a smart contract that's implementing mine you were like calling into their code but you can't know what theirs is going to do so there was this re-entrancy issue where within that other person supplied code you could like kind of call back in and it was sort of like So it was to do with child DAOs. So this whole zero risk thing was like, if you didn't like proposals that were happening, you could make a child DAO of saying, well, hey, I'm out, right? I'm taking my ether and my voting off into this other one, right? I'm not following you. I'm going there. And other people could join you as well. So I guess the idea was like, right, you know, here we've got this totally overgeneral DAO, but we're going to make a you know, like a DeFi DAO or an NFT DAO or a whatever. Right. And, and it's like, I, I guess a little bit like some of the thoughts for, for consensus and hub and spoke is like, you know, you're gonna get this universe of stuff just flourishing out and childs and, and, and, and so on. But yeah, the problem on that child down thing is that there was this reentrancy bug where rather than just being able to pull your F or your share, you can actually go in and pull more and more. So you have this hacker using this, had a child DAO and pulling a giant amount of the funds into that child DAO. And then within 30 days, they'd be able to exit with the funds. But kind of the blessings, I guess, of that setup is they're not immediately exiting with the funds, right? They haven't gone already and sold it on an exchange and they're done before you notice. You have got this... period uh and then the other thing is that you could join them you can go into the child now as well so after the hack you know there was this appeal out hey you know did did anyone participate in this you know specific child there was anyone in there it's like yeah you know yeah somebody else is in there and then what you could do is you could you know you could child down again it's like you could do it another one it's like right well i'm gonna grab it off you and you're gonna grab it off me and um so you know you could have had this this down wars thing of like you can never stop it but you could delay it indefinitely so that was one of them but then the other white hat thing is like okay well we know about the bug so we can do it too you can have white hat people like well we're going to see a lot of the money out of the top out of the top down as well but we're doing it for good right we're doing it here to keep it to give it back right So, yeah, you had all of those games going on within that existing setup, but then as a reaction to that, you had all of this discussion about, well, you know, are we going to react? Are we not going to react? The first proposal was a soft fork, but, you know, it was just going to, like, blacklist out stuff to do with the hacker, right?

[51:35] SPEAKER_02:
Because it was spotted that it was a denial of service attack. Got it. Because that blacklisting was not accounted for in the cryptoeconomics. So it was like: yeah, you had a denial of service attack thing on that soft fork. So it got done, And then it got undone. And then the hard fork was like: okay, well we can go in And we can do an irregular state transition, where at a certain block you re just going to have a hardcoded thing which sticks different bytecode into the address of the DAO. Which is like: okay, yeah, that thing it didn t happen. What s actually at that address is a simple refund thing where you can all get your money back. So that was the DAO hard fork.

[51:39] SPEAKER_00:
okay. was done for it. and I think it might even have gone on test nets and things, but it never went live. okay. Because it was spotted that it was a denial of service attack. got it. Because that blacklisting was like, you know, not accounted for in the crypto economics. So it was like, yeah, you had a denial of service attack thing on that soft fork. So it got done and then it got undone. and then the hard fork was like, okay, well we can, we can go in and we can do an irregular state transaction, uh, where at a certain block, you know, you're just gonna have a hard coded thing, which sticks different, uh, bytecode into, uh, into the address of the, of the DAO. which is like, okay, yeah, that thing, it didn't happen. What's actually at that address is a simple refund thing where you can all get your money back. So that was the doubt hard fork.

[52:53] SPEAKER_04:
just wanted to ask where were you at this time because i know you got involved um i believe later with etc because it didn't exist yet um and so you know how in terms of your personal perspective on all this you're actually implementing it anything um yourself because obviously you've got pretty deep knowledge of the technical uh internals um

[53:17] SPEAKER_02:
Yes, I was working for the foundation. I was on the C++ team at that point. This was about three or four months after I'd started. The thing that was really interesting to me was how different people's thoughts or perspectives were, even within the foundation. That you'd have people, say, working on Geth, going, well, of course we shouldn't do anything. Well, of course we should. And it's like, you know, I've been working with you for a year. Like, what? You think that? Like, what? You know, you have this real mixture of reactions. And I mean, my first reaction was, well, you know, of course you don't do anything. Like, it's an immutable blockchain. That's the whole point. Like, you know, you don't like the outcome. Well, you know, tough titties. You know, you've seen so many, you know, like Mt. Gox. You know, Mt. Gox, you didn't have the Bitcoiners going, you know, let's try and fix this up. Or, you know, and I think the only reason it happened was because of the scale of it. that it was a significant chunk of the entire ETH money base. And also, I think that things weren't super great on funding and it wasn't like Ethereum was sure to succeed. It was quite nascent at that point. And I know that there were also worries about the proof of stake transition and the fact that if you had a large amount of of the ether in you know hostile hands that you could maybe have years of like griefing attacks and stuff like that Um, but also I think there was just, you know, a lot of people were like, well, you know, this is theft, right? You know, that money was intended for building the ecosystem and, you know, some guys come in and stolen it. And if we can fix that, well, we should. So, so yeah, I mean, I, you know, my immediate reaction was you shouldn't, but I also, it was like, well, you know, whatever, that seems to be the consensus that we do it, you know, and Okay, off we go. Though I wasn't at the foundation many more months after that anyway. But there was this real schism. Though I think from what I saw, I think probably about 85% of people wanted to do the hard fork and 15% didn't. Or maybe 80-20%. But I think there was pretty strong consensus to do it. But that was, you know, very contentious for, you know, a not tiny group of people. You know, that a lot of people that have got involved with Ethereum have done so because they kind of wanted smart, you know, Bitcoin with smart contracts. And if you're of that Bitcoin-y mindset, then, you know, like, of course you don't, you know, don't screw with things. but but I think there's also this larger group that were like well ether isn't money anyway like that was a messaging that had been given out at the time it's like no no it's fuel right it's fuel for the engine though I think part of that is just like trying to Dodge legal liability but but you know that was also true as well you know this whole world computer know here's a platform right you know it's a platform like the web or android so i think it was sort of like that that was the mental split is like is it money and if it's money you don't move people's monies without private keys like you know that's that's a mortal sin and on the other side you're like well no it's a bug right it's a bug in the platform and it's like well but it's but it was a bug in the smart contract well you know if you've worked on serious software projects you know people hack on the wrong layers all the time right because it's going to give you a better user experience like you know you don't have to be you know pure on that it's really about how the thing works so you know you get hacks in the wrong layers all the time um and if if you're just seeing it as a software platform then yeah it's a bug you fix the bug

[57:59] SPEAKER_00:
so it's rare in life that you can actually see a counterfactual but in this case we can because etc was created at that time and kind of emerged out of that so like um you know can you talk a little bit about that and how is that gone because you're deep into that ecosystem obviously as the you know director of the ethereum classic cooperative like how does it work now like you know what how did those words divide

[58:27] SPEAKER_00:
yeah. 20, 000 is the figure I've heard. over that month or so right Where it's like you know the money's been stolen into the sub down are we going to do anything you know you have the most um you know vigorous debate on all platforms right you know It was the the topic you know What's going to happen how's It going to go and everything right so you know I don't think There's anyone that was like unaware of this stuff happening you know it's very very everyone with their eyes open um, But yeah, you know, you just, you just have this group of people kind of gathering together and it's like, No, you know, we're not gonna go with It. this is not gonna happen. or, or at least like, you know, we're not following that Hard fall. Maybe people do, But you know, a bunch of people deciding not to, um, the other thing I thought was Really interesting at the time and was to my mind, the, the best thing of all about that chain split is to that point, I don't think There's ever been a minority chain that survived, right? the standard thinking is like, you're going to have a winning side and a losing side. and, you know, it's going to happen and we'll see where's the thing, you know, Where are the people going, which is the winner and then the losers, you know, Well, you know, people will stop mining, It will just die, right? because it's the loser chain. so There's No economic value There and, you know, forget It. But What actually happened on the ATC side is, you know, you had miners that were like, Well, you know, just going to keep on mining. I'm not updating, you know. you know, some of It going, you know, the evil Ethereum foundation and, you know, Vitalik's a dictator. you know, I mean, I don't think any of that's true. But you have got people that were like, No, I'm going to keep going. and then, Oh, look, block production's still going and, you know, it's still happening There. uh and then poloniex listed It and then it's got a market value and then you've got speculative activity around that you've got ether holders like dumping their ETC you know it's hey it's free money um But also you've got other people on the other side going Well you know I see real value here and like this ETC is going cheap so you know noticeably notably barry silbert who first non bit in Ethereum to that point presumably like based on pre mine and various other things But was like Well Oh actually like you know an immutability focused dtc uh you know would be would be Really interesting so yeah you just got this sort of grassroots thing forming you got volunteers jumping up saying, hey, I'm a developer, I'll keep maintaining the classic Geth clients and so on. and It found its own legs There. you had like the Ethereum subreddit was like a primary communication platform at that point. and then you had like an Ethereum classic one being created and some people in you know, one side, some on the other, But, you know, It got quite bitter in the end, right? you know, you've got a lot of people that were like, you know, foundation, you guys, you just ruined, you know, you've just ruined the project. um, and you had people, um, on the other side, seeing is seeing ETC is Really illegitimate, you know, as saying, Well, look, you, you know, it's just a money grab. you just want your free money. um, why are these Bitcoiners kind of coming over like they weren't interested in Ethereum before and now they are like that's not you know uh you know that's that's not good and you did obviously have a bunch of speculators in There as Well so that's all a bit nasty too um But I think the thing that like suffered those communities um finally was this like 100 F meme which came about because somebody tweeted, hey, Vitalik, I hear that you're working on Ethereum classic. is There any truth to this? and he said, No, I'm only working on Ethereum. and the person then said, Well, What if ETC had more market cap than Ethereum? and he said, No, I still wouldn't work on It. 100 F like he wasn't saying It in a purity pledge way he was just in the way he does being just making a factual statement But then I remember you know Joe replied you know I'm 100 F and then it's like everyone's doing It right it's this purity pledge you know everyone is expected to you know pledge allegiance to air so It became a, you know, Oh, shit, is this an either or? like, you can't be in both. like, if you're interested in ETC, then, you know, you're a dirty person. so I think that Really wedged It, you know, wedged It permanently apart at that point. and also, you know, a number of the people that were volunteering on ETC, you know, they were Really angry. they were like, you know, Well, like, you know, been involved for, two two and a bit years in this project you know Really pumped about everything that you can do with Ethereum and then you guys have you know wrecked It so There was a lot of you know bitterness from that ETC side back um But then you know things kind of split apart and and over time ETC you know found its own path so with the real differentiation being Well, firstly, the DAO hack didn't happen. that was the only initial difference. very rapidly, though, There was this conclusion that fixed economic policy was needed. you know, the ETC was Really like Bitcoin with Ethereum technology, But, you know, Bitcoin, you know, culture and ethos. so it's like, right, you know, There's No fixed monetary policy for Ethereum. I mean, you see this over many years. There's like, you know, change of, change of block rewards, ice age, delays, fee burning, you know, many, many changes. so that was the first kind of like major change on the ETC side was introduction of that fixed monetary policy, because There was consensus that that was an important, you know, that was like bad inheritance that we want to fix. and the other thing that that enabled was the grayscale ETC fund. so at that point it's like right Okay this is Really a Bitcoin feeling thing and you know There's a feeling that There's There's a value here so then from from that grayscale then created the uh btc cooperative that I work from you know so a share of the fees went into that kind of not quite a foundation But a bit like a foundation you know a non profit to support the ecosystem and then the other thing more recently is just proof of work. you know, There was sort of fairly rapidly a consensus that ETC wanted to stick with proof of work indefinitely, But that proof of state was seen as a, you know, as a centralising, oligarchic kind of thing that didn't Really fit with that ethos. But more generally, ETC is tracking protocol changes in Ethereum, you know, very compatible. 1: 06: 09 SPEAKER_00: so There have been forks, But not the Hard fork along the way, because... Well, so yeah, I mean, Hard forks, But not chain splits. got It. Okay. 1: 06: 21 SPEAKER_02: in the all protocol updates on Ethereum as Well, you know, They're all Hard forks. and the old side doesn't actually go away. you could run a Frontier node if you wanted. you can mine on Frontier, mine the Olympic testnet, mine any of these ones. it's just you have had the wither and die because There hasn't been contention. But on ETC, you have sufficient contention that you had a chain split. But yeah, I guess that's sort of a Bitcoin. forks are bad, But it's like, consensuous Hard forks are bad. Hard forks are an upgrade mechanism for the protocol. 1: 07: 07 SPEAKER_01: yeah. I mean, I remember I had to implement that fork a few years ago and It was pretty blatant. It was just like, take money from here and place It here. by the way, It didn't bug me. But we had people in the block apps who thought of It as like a stab to the back. they were like so upset by It. 1: 07: 27 SPEAKER_02: Well, I mean, it's literally here's an array of addresses, right? to fuck with. Yep. 1: 07: 32 SPEAKER_01: I remember that was, I don't remember What else was in There, But I remember like the majority of It was just like, take a bunch of money and put It into these addresses. and that was the fork. 1: 07: 42 SPEAKER_02: yeah. you know, for this list of addresses, replace, you know, It was, yeah, you know, replace the bytecode with this other bytecode. and also, yeah, I think the moving was consolidating the child DAOs. I think that's What that was doing. so it's like move the money from the child DAOs back into the parent DAO and change the bytecode. I think if block equals this, do a horrible thing. 1: 08: 13 SPEAKER_00: in the UTC world Where the DAO hack happened, are those fun? did the hacker pull out those funds? Okay. 1: 08: 27 SPEAKER_02: yeah. interesting. yeah. I mean, again, Laura Shin has a great write up of all of this in her book, the Cryptopians, including working out who It probably was. 1: 08: 40 SPEAKER_00: Oh, wow. Okay. 1: 08: 42 SPEAKER_02: so she didn't name names in the book, But then she did an article like on the release day or just before uh naming who she thinks It was so that's an interesting story I can I'll I'll dig out that article and send It to you guys so you can add It to the uh description here cool and But you know Bob you're a natural born bridge builder as we said you get along with everyone do you ever see the you know uh Valley between Ethereum and Ethereum classic narrowing or getting better or do you think It is getting better um I mean the problem that Ethereum classic has always had from the time of the split and It comes back to money again like I think that was the one thing that the foundation did wrong um you know like not not talking about the developers or the decision on that or whatever was to only put the money on one side. because What that did is disenfranchised a good chunk of people who had invested in the pre sale, who'd been part of that community, who'd genuinely been actively involved for those first two years. and they were just left in the dust. it's like, fuck you guys. we don't care What you think. Goodbye. and the trademark's going this way and all the funds are going this way. and all the developers went that way as Well. and I mean, obviously the foundation couldn't control that, What people choose to work on. But What that meant is effectively that group of people got defunded, like totally done. I'm sorry, my child, I disavow you and I'll kick you out of the house forever and we shall never talk to you again. you know, I think in retrospect, It should have been like, Okay, funding is available for the fork as Well. and you May hate us, you know, and not want to talk to us. But you know, I guess it's like, you know, a child, you know, whatever teenager, I'm, fuck you dad, I'm leaving home. and it's like Okay I'm not going to stop putting aside savings and money for you I you know you might not love me now But you know I'm you're my child too and you know we'll find a way of making It happen you know because say with the c cooperative you know It could have been Well when that came into you know into existence the foundation could have gone Well Okay you know like here's a body that can help and There you go we're going to fund It as Well and There was something a little tiny bit like that with Virgil. so Virgil was also a huge bridge builder between Ethereum and Ethereum classic. so in 2018, he invited Anthony Busardi, who was my predecessor, to speak at EDCON. so this was May 2018. and that was the first Ethereum classic talk at an Ethereum event. It had been nearly two years at that point. and It was fine and It was cool and everyone was friendly. and Vitalik and various others came to that talk and It was all kind of friendly. and Anthony invited me to Ethereum Plastics Summit, which was in September 2018. so myself and Virgil went and spoke at that event. and around that time, Virgil they somehow they found some ETC that the foundation still had you know generally they did a market dump at that time um But There was some stuff that they found you know so it's like 50 grand or something like that and so we got that donated to the co op which was great that was a that was a Really nice nice kind of thing But you know It was kind of like here's a little gesture But Really, I think that was a real failing because It was a legitimate, irreconcilable difference. But It was made even worse by this 100 F purity pledge combined again with all the money's gone. so you end up with a very small community of mainly people who are very ideologically outraged. buy It. if you've got speculative token holders, obviously They're going to stick with Ethereum. What's this other thing? this new thing and There's nothing. so that's always been the issue that ETCs had is lack of money and interest, Really. more recently, we've had support from Bitmain after the merge with Ethereum moving to proof of stake. all of a sudden, ETC is one of the larger mining ecosystems. so all of a sudden, we're very aligned with Bitmain. they want to sell ASICs. they want to be using Antpool for mining. so They're supporting a grant program now. But yeah, ETC, it's small. 1: 14: 17 SPEAKER_00: But you have you know you have some people and that's you know that's their that's What they want yeah and as you said like you know like it's broken mode of like sidechain surviving right like It Really like you know these It it's possible you know um Oh sorry go ahead Karen I wanted to talk quickly about you know this the definition of success for blockchains 1: 14: 43 SPEAKER_04: market caps um and all that sort of thing and I was looking today because so durian's market cap is in the 200 billions um durian classic is still at number 28 which is quite impressive and is you know 2. 6 billion in market cap I think market cap is probably more of an indicator of popularity than anything rather sort of truly long term you know it's not quite like 1: 15: 12 SPEAKER_02: with companies Where market cap is probably a better indicator of how important they are But It is also still and then if you look yeah if you look in coin gecko so Ethereum classic is higher than cosmos than filecoin than hedera than internet computer than than aptos than lido um the near than optimism, than arbitrum, than the graph. 1: 15: 46 SPEAKER_04: and so I wanted to follow, is market cap a good goal? What is your goal for ETC? if you were trying to make up the gap with Ethereum, would you do anything differently? 1: 16: 01 SPEAKER_02: I mean, I think to do that, you just need vast investment into application layer. I mean, I think that's somewhere Where ETC Really can't compete with many other VC chains that have huge treasuries that can be spending tens or hundreds of millions on grant programs. we can't compete that way. But also, as you say, it's a bit of a vanity metric in a way. There are many other vanity metrics that we commonly see in the space. because if you want whatever the fastest chain or the most money or whatever, yeah, that's not going to be ETC. It can never be ETC. But for people that are interested, that's not the goal, right? they, you know, They're looking for something which is basically like Bitcoin plus smart contracts, you know, with that kind of strong non intervention kind of bias. and also proof of work, you know, a lot of people see, you know, real value in proof of work and are very skeptical of proof of stake systems. so, you know. it's not a winner takes all. 1: 17: 29 SPEAKER_04: it's been interesting just how not a winner takes all the blockchain space has been. They're like cockroaches. they just kind of keep going. I know they get delisted occasionally, But let's see how many pages you can get to. can we call them tree clippings? 1: 17: 48 SPEAKER_00: yeah. 20, 000 is the figure I've heard. 1: 17: 53 SPEAKER_02: yeah. 20, 000 live chains. 1: 17: 55 SPEAKER_00: yeah. 1: 17: 56 SPEAKER_04: that's quite a number and very interesting in and of itself. Victor, you were saying something when I made my comment. 1: 18: 04 SPEAKER_00: Oh, No, No, No. I was just saying I was going to ask you more questions about the early days of EEA, But I think we will have to invite you back because I'm pretty sure we could have another 90 minute conversation on that. But it's been interesting. great to have you Bob as always you're always been a great friend and a wealth of information on the space so thank you for joining us and we hope you'll come back again soon 1: 18: 35 SPEAKER_02: Well, thank you. and sorry for monopolizing me. 1: 18: 39 SPEAKER_04: No, that's why you're here. your story, we've told plenty of ours. I see on other podcasts, should we send people anywhere? Where can people find you? do you want them to find you, et cetera? 1: 18: 56 SPEAKER_02: yeah, I can drop you some links afterwards. But yeah, my own website is bobsonworld. com. ethereumplastic. org is the main sort of landing page for ECC. 1: 19: 11 SPEAKER_04: Awesome. Fantastic. Well, thank you very much. Really appreciate your time. and I'm sure we will follow up. we'll put our heads together and do another one. 1: 19: 20 SPEAKER_00: Yes, we'll have to have a round two. There's plenty more stories that we haven't even touched on yet. 1: 19: 28 SPEAKER_04: Okay. Cheers, guys. Cheers.
