SPEAKER_01: Okay, we are live. Welcome to this week's Unchained Oracles. As usual, I am joined. I'm Victor Wong. I'm founder and chief product officer at Strato. And as usual, I am joined with Kieren James Lubin, CEO of Strato. And the man with the oranges, Jim Hermosillo, CTO of Strato.

SPEAKER_03: From sunny California that's not so sunny right now.

SPEAKER_01: Have you eaten many oranges or are they just for show?

SPEAKER_03: There's a tree behind me.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, nice. Well, this week we are going to do our crypto year in review recap. But before we get into that, two quick things. One is, at some point during the show, I will announce a special giveaway. And it's going to be a really special year-end giveaway. But in preparation, we recommend that everyone get a Strato account, if you don't have one already, and join our Telegram, because those will be two parts of it.

SPEAKER_02: And before we get into the... The URL to sign up?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, thank you. It is strato, S-T-R-A-T-O,.nexus to sign up.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, and you can go straight to app.strato.nexus.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. And thanks, Kieren. And Ben, we are joined by Michael Tan today for our Strato Spotlight, because we have lots of new features to show. So Michael. What do you have for us today to talk?

SPEAKER_00: Hi, everyone. Hey, so I'm showing you guys the easy savings path today. Basically, it's bridging in stables from Ethereum and saving them earning yield in the lending pool. So I start by connecting my Ethereum wallet as such. It's a really simple process. As long as you have it in the browser, my wallet is connected. I can pick between USDC and USDT. We're going to be adding a couple of different stables soon, including yield bearing ones. Let's bridge in a hundred here. Make sure this is checked so that it goes directly into the lending pool. We just add these cool modals, but you just need to confirm everything, sign the permit, confirm the transaction. Why is it? All right, there you go. Takes a couple of seconds. Waiting for the all safe. Great. Now we should be receiving the deposit one to two minutes into the lending pool. And that is your easy savings, fastest and easiest way to earn points on Strato.

SPEAKER_01: And now- So in the background, what's happening, Michael? It looks like we're converting from USDC into our local stables, USDST, and then putting it into the lending pool. Is that right?

SPEAKER_00: Yep, that's correct. And you could do the same with USDT if you'd like. Awesome. And we also have a bridge out feature if you ever need that over here. But for now, this is the easiest way to get money in the lending pool and start earning.

SPEAKER_01: Cool. And as everyone knows, we launched our season one reward program roughly two weeks ago. So how's that going, Michael?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so we have quite a bit of points that have been issued. You can kind of check it here. The leaderboard, if you go to this tab, you can also go here to go directly to the leaderboard from the sidebar. But as it currently stands, it looks like I'm number 13 on this. You can check out the different activities in the network that are being done to earn points as well as the rewards here. These are your different positions that are currently earning points. And this is my lending pool from Easy Savings.

SPEAKER_01: Awesome. You got to bump up your activity to get up on the chart. You got to get to the top three soon. Well, thank you for joining us, Michael. And we look forward to the next segment. So with that, take care. Thanks, Michael. Okay, so let's talk about the crypto year in review. This has been like, when I kind of like reflected, I realized this kind of been a crazy year for crypto in general. And I think for us specifically, like there's just been so much going on. So let's start with what you think is the biggest story of the year. And I'm going to start with Jim. Jim, from your point of view, what do you want?

SPEAKER_03: you know, I want to push back a little bit on this one because I'm not going to push back. I'm going to answer the question, but, but I found this the least interesting of the, of the questions, because sort of by definition, the biggest story is the stuff that we've all been talking about nonstop all year. Anyway, it's the stuff that's been in the news. So it's just like, my answers to this are just going to be boring and obvious. It's like in crypto in general. Well, sorry. It's at, at, at block gaps. The big story was that this was a, a development here. Like, we uh uh spent the whole year uh we figured out what we wanted to do early on we spent the whole year really making a great product and uh really only released it in the last few months so that that that is the big story from us in crypto in general the big story was just the crazy ride that that crypto took it was like uh uh you know Bitcoin was down and then it was up and then it was down again. I don't even know where it is today. Somewhere in the middle of the year, I have this memory of seeing Eric Trump live in Toronto introducing some crypto project. So it's just sort of a crazy ride this year in crypto. But I will pass it on.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, Kieren, what was your biggest story of the year?

SPEAKER_02: Okay, so I'll quibble with Jim a little bit. I think, I guess mine's a little bit a meta story. So it depends what you mean by big. Like I have a little bit of a philosophical objection to news. News is always point in time and it doesn't really tell you trend. I think we would agree on this. And people that over-index on the current and then under-index on like what's really going on. And the biggest one for me was that adoption and in price have continued to decouple. We started to see maybe 2023, 2024, that the supply of stables on chain, it previously was correlated with crypto prices and then started to stop being correlated with crypto prices. And stables on chain are all time high and transaction volumes and stables doubled again between 2024 and 2025. I believe, I asked the AIs this, they all said that. so at the same time prices are a little bit down from beginning of the year to end of the year so this may just be how it is for a while uh there's also other metrics like active wallets are up by maybe 10 million depending on the time interval that you consider uh there are different estimates mobile's up 20-ish percent um and also the the institutions are clearly doing more than waiting in they're actually like quietly moving money with stables especially around the world um and there's more of a kind of recurring institutional buy that's going on where crypto part of the reason it's been so volatile is that you know a bunch of very aggressive speculators are buying and selling rapidly And if you compare stocks, the stocks that get included in the major indexes, you know, quite often people have their send 500 bucks a month to Vanguard. Right. And so that smooths out the volatility to some degree in, let's say, high, you know, medium to high market cap stocks. Right. That's actually a little bit starting to happen in crypto. I think at some point you'll see some of the debts get included in indexes. So that same pool of capital will start to flow into crypto. It's been friendly on the regulatory side, at least largely. The U.S. is passing some of the laws. The laws may not be perfect, but they're better than before. And also just the behavior of the regulatory agencies is far less aggressive, far less arbitrary and capricious, if you will. And yet the prices are not up. So to me, this is OK. It might be a sign of maturity, but this is the story.

SPEAKER_01: Or do you think part of it might be that, like, the adoption from institutions and more mainstream things is sort of a leading indicator of where it goes? Like, it's not like, you know, some big BlackRock announces some big thing and they turn it on immediately.

SPEAKER_02: So, you know, maybe like it does feel like to me that most of the times the institutions are early and, you know, retail price action comes later. You see that like funding private companies, you know, that you kind of you need retail slash the public markets to get that next liquidity right um i'm not sure because there was a time you know when everyone had their stimulus checks and was gambling at home you know during the pandemic when like retail everything not just crypto you know era um so I don't know what the trend like now, I guess that was all stuff that was funded twenty seven twenty eighteen by ICOs, which were a mix of institutional and crypto whale retail and so on. So I don't know. I think the retail comes back, but it's a different form than than the last time. Like it you definitely most people that trade uh in general uh this includes stock day trading something like 90 lose and our one of our employees is fond of saying 90 lose and on average it takes 18 to 24 months for them to admit it and stop and just total you know in effect but um so we may have burned like a whole lot of people but different ones will come in the future i think

SPEAKER_01: So for me, I think the biggest story, well, maybe I'll start with the crypto one and then just my general theme, right? The crypto one is the return of building that matters in the crypto space. And what I mean by that is I think in the previous year, you know, it was sort of the rise of meme coins, right? Like people were just kind of like marketing was winning the day. And it really was the people who kind of like could make a big splash of excitement in the market and you know i was kind of shocked when i looked at the timeline that like the labor corn was in february of this year like it feels so long ago and but like Now you see the projects that are rising, like, you know, like Zcash, the rise of Zcash, like projects that have been building for a long time and kind of really, really investing on the infrastructure side. And even like the institutions getting involved on the infrastructure side, like, you know, Temple by Stripe or things like, you know, Robin Hood and doing their own too. So I think, You know, as builders ourselves, I like to trend back toward building. And I think that's a big trend this year. But I think part of the other trend, which is in crypto directly related, is that AI has gotten really, really good and it kind of affects everything, but it certainly affects my day-to-day and I think our day-to-day ability to deliver, right? So like, you know, like our mutual friend, Steven Chu, who just published, I think the first theoretical physics paper that was like co-authored by an AI. He describes AI at this point as like a super genius that is kind of crazy, which is kind of like exactly the thing. Like, yes, it does lead you kind of like on some goose chases sometimes, like hallucinations and over, but its potential to shortcut so many things is so powerful.

SPEAKER_03: I think we're going through a phase right now in the last couple of months where people are sort of figuring out the limits of AI. which is an important step in this because now that's going to bring us to the next stage. Like early in the year, it just looked like it was magic and can do everything. And now, but we knew it wasn't doing everything because, you know, it hasn't taken over the world yet. But now we're sort of understanding what it is that it can do and can't do. Yeah, I agree.

SPEAKER_01: And even hard to check. kind of what it should be doing, right? Like I think when we just took the outputs and we just assumed, okay, those are okay. But like, I think it's like chucking it. What do you think, Kieren?

SPEAKER_02: Let me add an example. I've talked a bunch of times about getting back into writing code because the AI is so good. And I thought that this applied mostly to the app layer of our stack. So for those who haven't seen it, we have An app that lets you save in high quality assets, participate in swap pools, lending pools, you know, all that sort of thing. It looks like kind of a, you know, somewhere between a DeFi app and it's definitely DeFi in architecture and like a, you know, Coinbase style application. And so the AI is actually really good at writing code in the app layer. But I didn't think so. We also have our own in-house blockchain that we've worked on for years, starting with being an Ethereum mainnet client, kind of forking off for enterprise use and then going back to being our own standalone L1. It, I didn't think the AI was going to be ready to help code in the really hardcore platform layer, but at least for simpler stuff, I discovered a couple of weeks ago that it can. In fact, that if I describe, so the thing you have to have is like a good instinct for how the pieces work together. Like, you know, the peer to peer process is doing this and we see this in the logs and then it's, you know, the data is getting to the VM this way. And like, so I still have all of that, but I can barely write the Haskell anymore, but I don't have to. If I keep it pretty constrained and this is like a surgical fix, not like a big rewrite I couldn't do or something like that. I can just describe what's wrong and what's probably right, and it more or less gets it right. And I don't think it could do the Haskell six months ago. It's pretty good now, again, for surgical fixes, not like really big stuff, but each part of our stack getting more accessible to AI is a remarkable change. I'd also say, like, I remember when I was very good at net new code snippets but couldn't read a code base. And now I can read a code base like maybe as of a year ago, maybe eight months, ten months. It can read a code base so much faster than I can that I just don't need to read the code base except Line by line on a specific issue.

SPEAKER_03: So Stephen did say something in the podcast that until he said it, I kind of like was intuiting it. But but it really was like a moment when he said it. Is that, so I've been wondering why, even though I have all these amazing tools, why sometimes I am not going a lot faster than I'm going. And in fact, sometimes I'm even slowed down. And he expressed something that he had experienced in writing the physics paper. which is the wild goose chase problem. These things know too much and they can throw out lots of great ideas and you can go off and just spend hours trying to research each of the ideas. And you end up wasting more time researching all the potential good ideas. And, you know, a lot of them don't pan out. Some of them do. Sometimes I learn like, you know, there's enough of a yield to it where I get some like lifetime tool out of it. that it was worth it to do it. But I'm wasting a lot of time just slavishly doing what the AI wants me to do. And I've gotten a little bit ruder with the AI lately and telling it, like, that's a stupid idea. I'm not going to waste my time.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Let me add to that also. Sometimes it feels like... there's certain types of like attorneys or accountants or whatever professional service workers who want like the belt and suspenders thing like let me give the answer that minimizes my risk as the professional services provider oh and by the way maybe cost the client like a lot of time and money yeah i agree you have to yell at it when it gets a little too um I don't know.

SPEAKER_01: And the thing is also, I think the thing with Steve that he also said, and by the way, everyone should check out the latest episode on the Metaphone podcast, because he did the paper with the AI on physics, which I don't understand. Jim, you're going to have to explain it to me one day. But he also did another paper on how he did use the AI to write the paper. And that I found fascinating. I feel like we're entering what I call the center phase. There was this phase in chess with AI where the best chess players were actually computer chess engines combined with expert chess players, right? And I feel like that's where we are now. Like, you need some level, like, you need to be an expert yourself to be able to evaluate the output of what the AI does. And you can't always just say, oh, like, the AI should know what it

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, but it's like the AI telling the master chess player to go off and play 20 games to, you know, try different things out or something.

SPEAKER_02: Well, the solution is ask the other AI to play.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly. Like double check that thing.

SPEAKER_03: You don't even have to ask another AI. These things are like... Myopic enough that if you just turn around and ask the same AI, sometimes it's like very angry at the first, its own first. It's true.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: What irritates me a lot is like when it's like, here is a snippet of code for you to try out. And I try it and it doesn't work. And I come back to it. And the AI is like, you're an idiot for trying that snippet of code. Obviously it wouldn't work. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I, one, one area AIs have not gotten down though is like spatial reasoning. I did ask it to like come up with a design for like a box, you know, and give me the lumber that I needed. Like I just kind of grabbed the list, ran off, got it. And then I came back and it was like totally wrong. Like I was like, and then when I looked at the diagram, it was like the wood had like overlapped with each other in space, you know, like. Things like that.

SPEAKER_02: Like spatial reasoning seems... You would need to train it on like a bunch of engineering diagrams or something. That's actually, you know, someone should do that. I'm surprised. Probably a bunch of people are working on it.

SPEAKER_01: I'm sure they're working on it. And I think... This is sort of in the space between the diffusion models and the LLMs. So I think that's where like, you know, and I know a bunch of people are working on kind of getting those, but I think, you know, when you ask the spatial relationship questions, you can be sent to one or the other and it sometimes gets confused. Okay. Second big category, biggest surprise of the year. I'm going to start with Kieren. What's that?

SPEAKER_02: Okay, so I thought about this. I have a two-part answer, slightly related. One, October 10th, that was like a Friday. I think we had wrapped some work up. I was sort of like, I can't remember exactly what was going on. But then, you know, it just, everything just, was it November 10th? 10-10, right? Yeah. And then just like everything blew up. Like, you know, you're up the next morning. It's like, whoa! Like... like 20 billion. It was like the 20x larger liquidation than had ever happened before. I guess there's a lot more leverage in the system with hyperliquid and all of these. But sort of a perfect storm of circumstances. And it just happened so fast. And I guess all financial markets are like this, like things can just explode or you know in an instant or all financial markets with the enough liquidity and derivatives right but um that was wild um i'm gonna add a related but you know you know on the edge so metals are at an all-time high right now yes we like when we were starting to build out metals we you know acquired some for direct sale on our like version one marketplace. And like, I feel like our average silver cost basis was like 25 bucks, 27, 29. It's like over 70. So like at least in the last day, I don't know what's that right now. Gold also all time high and crypto's down. And it sort of shows, I believe, sort of this for a while. But and I hope it maybe becomes not true in the future. Mostly crypto does not behave like a defensive asset. It behaves like a high beta tech stock. It's risk on, you know, so you'll see if. The major tech companies go down, Bitcoin goes down, and vice versa. It's not always true. I think Liberation Day, we saw that happen for both. And then crypto actually went up in sort of a, well, if they're going to restrict the movement of goods, they're not going to restrict the movement of crypto. It's hard to do. Why is it? Why is this? I think it's just like it's the same type of people buying both and they see it as a future facing technology speculative asset.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, for a long time, people have pointed out that if you look at crypto, instead of acting as a hedge against the stock market, it acts as more of a high alpha line of the stock market.

SPEAKER_02: Early on, Bitcoin was totally uncorrelated with the stock market. But I think it probably started being correlated at least by 2020, but maybe even like 2018, let's say.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, Jim, what was your biggest surprise of the year?

SPEAKER_03: So I'm going to say the return of, even though it never went away, and by the way, this might be recency bias because this has all been the last couple of months in my world, but the return of ZK into the world. Suddenly about two months ago, I started hearing everybody talk about it again. You know, like we, uh, the, uh, when we were down in Argentina, a lot of the talks were about that, um, board meeting, people were all asking us what's your ZK strategy. Uh, you guys all of a sudden got really interested in the Zcash client that I, that I had worked a bit on a couple of years ago. Um, It looks like it's probably real right now because there are certain applications that are actually working. Although I won't say which, but I went to a bunch of talks in Argentina that clearly were vaporware. Maybe that's even generous, like things that didn't make sense to me. But there are a couple of applications and the scaling application that I guess will probably happen in Ethereum could be big. So it's kind of exciting. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, like, if you look at the trend lines, it's crazy. I think, like, last year to do a proof for on the, like, Ethereum blockchain testnet, it took, like, a computer with, like, 48 GPUs. And then now it's down to four. So it's, like, really accelerated. Yeah, I'm not sure why that's happening, but it does seem to be.

SPEAKER_02: I think many things are true at once on the why. This is speculation, but yeah. One, like the EU came out and said like, oh, you're gonna need a driver's license to use the internet. And this scared the crap out of everybody. And then we're like, you know, we weren't taking the privacy thing. It's like, we just wanted to pump these prices, but like, you know, are they going to like, like, I'm going to need to like put my fingerprint for my computer to turn on. Not, no one has suggested that yet, but like, so the, you