SPEAKER_00: Can you hear me?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, I can.

SPEAKER_00: Excellent.

SPEAKER_01: Happy Strato spaces, Gm. What's up, guys?

SPEAKER_02: How are you?

SPEAKER_01: I'm good. First week of September. I'm not sure if it's officially the first week of fall, but nevertheless, super excited for a new month. I know at Strata, we have a very exciting month ahead.

SPEAKER_02: I think technically, fall starts on either 21st or 22nd, but spiritually, it starts after Labor Day. Of course, I don't know if anyone has a, you know, white suit, but you can. I actually sort of have a white suit. And you can no longer wear those already.

SPEAKER_01: I might have to see that. White suit's pretty. Pretty nice.

SPEAKER_02: I may have a photo. I think it's been worn to two sort of summer weddings, and that's the only time it's been. But I could probably dig one up for you, Jamie.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, Texture welcome.

SPEAKER_02: We had them. We lost them.

SPEAKER_01: Give it a. Give it a few more minutes for some more folks. Pile in. Yeah, yeah. Spiritually, fall is here, along with football, to the behest of our European counterparts.

SPEAKER_02: By the way, for spaces resiliency, ChatGPT is recommending two co hosts up front. Now, do we already have the two, or can you add another one?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, you and Bob are co hosts.

SPEAKER_02: Okay. It just appears as speaker to me. Maybe it appears as co host to Bob on Bob's side. Bob, are you a co host successfully?

SPEAKER_00: It appears so.

SPEAKER_02: I see it now.

SPEAKER_03: Okay.

SPEAKER_02: Fantastic.

SPEAKER_04: Can you hear me?

SPEAKER_03: All right, cool.

SPEAKER_02: Wait. Very, very kind of cool. August for. For those of us who spent some of it in New York, like, August is supposed to be hot, and it mostly wasn't like the. There's supposed to be a sharp transition heading into the fall, but it feels.

SPEAKER_01: Like it kind of.

SPEAKER_02: Of started early this year. I don't know what's going on.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, completely agree. A lot of long sleeves and sweatshirts during the night.

SPEAKER_04: Bit cooler.

SPEAKER_03: You guys are old. Sitting around talking about the weather.

SPEAKER_02: We're waiting for you.

SPEAKER_03: Well, I'm here.

SPEAKER_02: Even better.

SPEAKER_01: Welcome.

SPEAKER_04: What's up, gm?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, great. Great to kick this off. I'll hand the mic over to Bob, but I just want to pay my compliments to your. Pft. Texture. It's. It's quite the Good. Quite a good one, so. Well, thanks, man.

SPEAKER_04: You own a texture pump?

SPEAKER_01: I do not, but I saw a few folks with them and obviously noticed yours, so might. Might have to. Might have to get one.

SPEAKER_03: It was a joke because I thought punks were ugly, so I made myself a better one, and then A friend asked me to make her one and then somebody else asked me to make one. And then like 30 people later, I was like, I should just make a little thing where they can make their own. And then, then, then my buddy started a Discord and 10,000 people showed up. And I was like, look.

SPEAKER_01: That'S some good lore. That's some great lore right there.

SPEAKER_03: I thought it was going to be me and my hundred friends.

SPEAKER_00: Accidental success. Fantastic.

SPEAKER_04: Great.

SPEAKER_00: Right, well, let's get going. So let's do it. High texture. How are you? It's been a while.

SPEAKER_04: It's been a long time.

SPEAKER_03: Always good.

SPEAKER_00: When I think of you, the first thing I think of is love.

SPEAKER_03: Oh.

SPEAKER_00: And something I'd spotted going through making my notes is your medium is called Peace Love Revolution.

SPEAKER_04: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: So what's the story there?

SPEAKER_04: So, you know, I was kind of, I wouldn't say a hippie.

SPEAKER_03: I didn't dress like a hippie. I didn't really hang out with hippies, but I. I took some psychedelics and.

SPEAKER_04: When I was a kid and I had some experiences and, you know, kind.

SPEAKER_03: Of drove my passion for, you know, doing good things and spreading love in the world. I know people that probably follow me.

SPEAKER_04: Are like, what the.

SPEAKER_03: He just calls people retards all day.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, but I mean, I'm on Twitter. I don't know.

SPEAKER_03: It's full of retards.

SPEAKER_04: So I started this group called Peace.

SPEAKER_03: Love Human because I was like sitting in a shitty basement apartment in San Francisco and I was watching the news and I was seeing how religions got all up and I was like, what.

SPEAKER_04: If there was like a religion that.

SPEAKER_03: Didn'T have any beliefs? And we just went out and did. Nice. So for like three years of my life, I was just like, homeless and had no job and wanted the airs. Setting up like free hug events and like, other stuff just to make people smile.

SPEAKER_04: Because, like, you know, making people feel.

SPEAKER_03: Loved or making people happy was not like a quantifiable metric. But making people smile was. So that was.

SPEAKER_04: That was what I did for my early 20s.

SPEAKER_03: So that's what I was doing then, community building. I accidentally started a culture and when I realized that it was a cult, I shut it down.

SPEAKER_00: Okay.

SPEAKER_04: But it, it helped me, you know, it was my first foray in the cult building, which obviously.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Very useful.

SPEAKER_04: I took into my role in Ethereum. And I don't feel like the Ethereum.

SPEAKER_03: Cult is going pretty well.

SPEAKER_00: I seem to remember at some point you told me that you've probably hugged a thousand random people. On the street.

SPEAKER_04: Oh my.

SPEAKER_03: Hugs a thousand in a day. Probably. Probably a hundred thousand or more.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, it was, it was nice.

SPEAKER_03: It was, it was good.

SPEAKER_04: I mean, I could waste this entire.

SPEAKER_03: Thing telling that story. That's probably not what people want to hear.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I can see why Decentralized Dance Party also appealed to you on that score.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, that's so ddp Gary, the guy who runs that, he, he came and stayed in my apartment in Brooklyn and we had this three story loft in a warehouse and we'd let people come crash and he came through and that's how I met him. And I've. I've done three or four of them. I was, I was, uh. What is it? It's. It's Tom. I was Tom. So Tom is like a rotate. I was Tom one time. So that was fun.

SPEAKER_04: Had to shave my beard.

SPEAKER_03: I had a mustache. I looked funny.

SPEAKER_00: I'll drop some, some links on Twitter for that. For anyone who hasn't seen Decentralized Dance Party or you can go and have a. Have a Google on your own is. It's quite exceptional.

SPEAKER_03: It's funny, I had no, I didn't really understand the decentralized thing at that point. I was not really involved. So he was kind of ahead of the curve on that with me for sure.

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, that's Gary Lachance, who is a fellow Vancouverite with me. He was funnily enough in, in a photo for the very first item I could find about Vancouver Decentralized. You know, the whole decentral Toronto, Vancouver thing. Gary was in that photo for the first one. Maybe well known as well now, but for Doge Claren. So there is The Doge wrapped McLaren which travels around many, many conferences where they can get financial support for that. Yeah, Gary's a great guy.

SPEAKER_03: It's pretty fun.

SPEAKER_04: So.

SPEAKER_00: Tell me about the vision that you had, which was then the same as the white paper, because on the Twitter thread I was wrongly saying your mind was blown by the Ethereum white paper. Where actually what happened was that you'd. You'd had a vision of this about a week before and then the white paper landed on you on your lap. So what the hell was that about?

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, so what actually happened was I had a roommate.

SPEAKER_03: For years ago, like years when I lived in New York and he had tried to get me.

SPEAKER_04: Into Bitcoin when it was a dollar. And I said, I don't.

SPEAKER_03: This is like Internet nerd money. I'm like a love revolutionary. I don't give a about this. And then he kept bothering me about.

SPEAKER_04: It for years, and then it hit.

SPEAKER_03: 1400, and I was kind of humble enough to be like, well, if other people think it's worth something, I guess it is. But he had. He had texted me, and he said, listen, man, I want you to listen to this podcast. And it was the let's Talk Bitcoin podcast with Adam B. Levine and Andreas Antonopoulos. And so I had given up working in tech because my. My arms had given out. I was a programmer and designer for, you know, a very long time.

SPEAKER_04: And.

SPEAKER_03: I had. I started making cannabis edibles in California because it seemed like a. An industry that was going to be some pretty easy to get into, like the marketing, the production, everything was. And I was pretty good at it. So, yeah, so I had. I had a girlfriend who was about four hours away, and I would go visit her on the weekends, and I. I.

SPEAKER_04: So I threw the bitcoin podcast on.

SPEAKER_03: I ate one of my candies and don't drive stone kids. But, yeah, on the way there, I was listening and listening to the podcast, and my. My brain just kind of tuned in, and I had. I. Like, what could I. I can only describe as, like, a biblical vision. I would say, like, before that I wouldn't have understood what that meant, but, like, just this massive data download into.

SPEAKER_04: My head where I could see, like.

SPEAKER_03: Basically see the future, like, visually. Like, I just saw the whole thing playing out in front of me, and I was like, oh, you know, bitcoin I'm still not particularly fascinated by, but the blockchain idea has. Has an amazing amount of potential, and I kind of saw how. How it could help, you know, people coordinate. And so it just kind of. It struck me so much that I was like, I got to go talk to Adam. I gotta go meet the people who did this podcast.

SPEAKER_04: Because at that time, it was the only bitcoin podcast, and I thought anybody.

SPEAKER_03: Who wanted attention for what they were doing would probably contact them. So the buddy that had told me to listen to the podcast randomly came.

SPEAKER_04: Into town three days later, and I.

SPEAKER_03: Said, hey, man, I've been thinking a lot. I listen to the podcast. I have a lot of ideas. I need to meet Adam. I need to meet. And he goes, well, actually, I'm flying out in a couple days to go meet him. We have a meeting scheduled. He's in Washington celebrating his birthday with his wife. And I said, no, no, no, no. We're getting in my car right now. I'm driving. I'm driving us there. I'm gonna go talk to him. And he's like, what? Really? And I'm like, yeah, cancel your ticket. Like, we're getting my car right now. So we drove, like, 20 hours or whatever to Washington state. I walked in, pretty much. I don't know what their meeting was about, but I pretty much just took Adam to the side, and we ended up sitting in his hot tub on his balcony for, like, nine hours, just talking. And it was a really cool. It was a really cool, you know, discussion. And I said, you know, what I want from you is I want you to tell me anybody, you know, who's. Who's working on anything like this. And he said, well, you know, the. Do you know who Vitalik is? I said, man, no, I'm not. I'm not in crypto. I'm not in bitcoin. I don't know. I don't know anybody. I don't know anything. And he said, well, he just sent me this white paper a few days ago. I can, like, I can afford it to you and can you guys still hear me?

SPEAKER_00: Yep, Yep.

SPEAKER_03: My little thing. Stop showing. So then, yeah, so he forwarded me the white paper.

SPEAKER_04: I looked at it. You know, to me, it wasn't as comprehensive as the vision that I had.

SPEAKER_03: But I thought, you know, this is. Kids met, you know, Right. Like, what are the chances that all the stuff lined up like this? So I said, yeah, make the intro. And so we started a Skype group. And, you know, Adam was there. I remember Charles was there. Vitalik was there.

SPEAKER_04: I was there.

SPEAKER_03: It's.

SPEAKER_04: It's.

SPEAKER_03: It became the official Ethereum Skype group and just kind of grew from there. So, you know, it was like.

SPEAKER_00: Was that water cooler?

SPEAKER_04: No, no, no.

SPEAKER_03: Water cooler is something I made later because people. Yeah, so that was just the. The literal, like, main Ethereum Skype channel that we used to communicate for the first. I don't know, long time.

SPEAKER_00: Right?

SPEAKER_04: No, water cooler was something I created.

SPEAKER_03: Later because I actually don't remember why people were.

SPEAKER_04: I. I had. I guess I was kind of like.

SPEAKER_00: I guess it's off topic or whatever. Probably off topic. Chanty thing maybe.

SPEAKER_03: But, like, I was kind of like the dude that everybody trusted. And so, like, whenever anybody wanted to talk to somebody, they would come talk to me, which is why I, like, got so much information about what was going on all the time. But, yeah, so I think it was just an extension of that. Like, people talk to me all the time. Let me create a little place for us to shoot the.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, yeah, so when, when do you think you had that trip to Washington? When do you think that would have been?

SPEAKER_03: I'm horrible with, with the time and dates, especially during that time, you know, when you're like a free flowing hippie dude.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: But it was, I would say it was the week after the, the week, week and a half after Vitalik sent the white paper out to.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_03: His original group of people to get the feedback on.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So it might even have been during November still.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I mean it was as early as you could get. I mean just by happenstance, just by the timing I was there, the, the basically the moment we were coming together.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing because. Yeah. So I was able to find that the video of, of you and Vitalik at the, at the salon, which was beaming into the Vancouver decent there. And that was December 15th. That was. Yeah, you did that one.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. So we had been.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: I mean again, the timing, the timing. I don't know. But yeah, obviously by that time we had been doing it for a minute.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean the funny thing was looking at that, that's before there was any code, any public code, at least. There wasn't even any python code from Vitalik published at that point. Gavin, Jeff were weeks away still.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: And Jeff, Jeff to my understanding, just read the white paper and started coding it up on his own and said, hey, I've got this go implementation.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, pretty much. And the same for Gav. They were both at the very tail end of December. Basically like a Christmas project kind of deal for them. For the pair of them.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, no, it was great.

SPEAKER_04: You know, and I've been a developer my whole life, since I was a kid.

SPEAKER_03: And since I'd quit coding, I wasn't really sure where I fit in, you know, but I was really happy when all these other people like got in. I guess maybe if I'd have dropped.

SPEAKER_04: Some code and gotten a lot more.

SPEAKER_03: Eth, that would have been cool, but.

SPEAKER_04: Whatever.

SPEAKER_00: So I mean, to you at that point, like what was Ethereum? Like what was this, this vision and like what were you thinking that that could unfold to be. You know, what, what was the, what was the, the, the, the, the kernel of that?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, so I mean it's, it's so hard to remember those days. There's so much on top of it now. You know, I remember the general vibe was just a technology that would allow people to coordinate to, to encode value to. I mean, you know, like just at all dimensions. Things that haven't even come to Fruition.

SPEAKER_04: Yet things that people aren't even thinking.

SPEAKER_03: About because so much of it has gone to scale. Just like fundraising, fundraising locally, like just coordinating anything. I mean it was, it was just the whole world like just imagining every single system being replaced by this decentralized coordination structure that, that gives the, you know, some, some 11 year old kid in, you know, Bangalore could create the next, you know, technical development. And you know, I think that kind of platform is just something that seemed really empowering. So, you know, a lot of idealism, you know, obviously real life as it's played out is a lot, a lot messier and a lot different from how we, how we imagined it, but a lot of idealistic things, a lot of, like very much just, just really coordination and, and that's a really shitty description of the vision that I had because it was so deep and so multi dimensional and.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, but yeah, social operating system is something I've seen you say on a few occasions.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, I mean, yeah, just there's so.

SPEAKER_03: Many dimensions to it, but yeah, I mean, a social operating system for allowing people to encode their values or encode. Yeah, literally their values. Anything with value creating incentive structures, contracts that, that, that are enforced at the exact level that they were designed to, which none of that's, you know, that sounds really technical and, and unsexy, but to me it was really about the impact, you know, what it, what happens when you empower people to, to be able to, to create value in their local communities or, or encode value in ways they haven't been able to. What happens when you can do that to houses and local businesses and local communities?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean, I think in my own sort of thinking in those early days, it was an awful lot about empowerment and about, you know, giving, giving people the ability to control their own destiny. Right.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And something I repeatedly thought was, was like, if you think about the, what's it called? The pyramid of needs. What's it called?

SPEAKER_03: I forget the Maslow.

SPEAKER_02: The hierarchy.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, Maslov's. Right? Maslov's hierarchy of Needs. You know, I remember a number of times saying, you know, it's frankly obscene given all the resources that we have in the world and how, you know, how, how much more there is than was in previous years, it's obscene that people should be like worried about housing or education or healthcare or, you know, just these basic things. Right?

SPEAKER_04: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And how wonderful would it be if you could like yank up that base layer a little bit so that people are not like living in this fearful place of powerlessness, but instead can be like not worrying about that shit and not having to make these compromise, bad decisions and everything.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Just. If you could do what you love, what, what a world that would be.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. And I'm a lot less idealistic about it now after the last decade for a lot of reasons, but, you know, there, the marshmallow test is real and you can create really good technologies and really good user experiences and as many guard rails as you can for people. But at the end of the day, there's that are going to eat the marshmallow before they even hear the rules, you know, and then they'll do it again and again.

SPEAKER_04: So I, you know, I think there's a lot of. It's, it's not that I think the.

SPEAKER_03: Problems are unsolvable, but they're, you know, the idea that it's something from above being imposed down.

SPEAKER_04: You know, despite the.

SPEAKER_03: Fact that the system seemed to be that way. I think a lot of it is just the, the, the level of complexity of modern life relative to the average intelligence is, it's just, it's, it's a wide gap and there's a lot of. I mean, I could talk about that for 10 hours too, so.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well, I mean, something that I saw in those early days of Ethereum as well was a real kind of almost like allergic reaction to anything that looked like organization or hierarchy or structure. You know, just like this total flip to the opposite side. Right. Everything's got to be flat and open and, you know, everything. Everyone involved with everything, which is just completely impractical for actually organizing or doing anything. Y think I can't. Yeah, it's just, it's just nutty. So, but then it's like I realized it's like hierarchy isn't the problem. Being trapped in a hierarchy where it's to your detriment and you can't get out is the problem.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: You know.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_04: And a lot of. And I think a lot of times what happens in that is smart people, you know, smart people aren't really, they don't really understand. Not smart people. And so what happens is we, we are born into a world where these preexisting hierarchies exist and they've, you know, to some degree or another, you know, kind of persisted through, through generation after generation. And then we come in and we're like, why am I at the bottom of this hierarchy? I'M smart. We're all too smart for this. And then they try to, like, you know, they try to create new systems assuming that everyone is approximately like them. And then, you know, I've. I've been through so many because again, coming through the hippie, I was in the Bay Area for a long time. You see so many people think that they're the first person to ever think of flat hierarchies and how it's going to be so much better. And at the end of the day, man, like, that's fine if you want to talk all the time and you want to argue and you want to get nothing done. But at the end of the day, a hierarchy is an information structure, and it's also an accountability structure. And so as long as there's accountability at the top, and as long as the information is flowing correctly and as long as the outputs are optimal to some degree, then it's the best you're going to get. And it doesn't mean we can't continually improve. Obviously, life gets better and we have an obligation. You know, I think when you're creating things, it's not just the creating things. And I think this is a big problem that still exists in crypto. People think if you build it, they will come. You can't just build it. You have to build it, and then you have to make it a button, a single button. It has to be so simple. Your grandma can do it and not destroy her life. And so it is this kind of perpetual attempt to take these complex structures, simplify them so that everyone has access to them. But through that simplification, not creating these kind of hells that no one can get out of. And I