SPEAKER_00: Can you still hear me? Just put them back in after I can lock and load voice.

SPEAKER_01: Can you guys confirm we're live on Twitter and YouTube? Actually, how do I join the YouTube one? Okay, I see it live on my laptop. Okay. Can you speak? Yeah, testing. Yeah, I'm sure this works.

SPEAKER_00: Can you hear us?

SPEAKER_01: Hopefully there's no horrible echo like last week. Okay, I hear.

SPEAKER_02: I hear you.

SPEAKER_01: I'm gonna drop that.

SPEAKER_00: I hear some echo.

SPEAKER_01: Okay. Yeah, well, the echo echoes from my laptop, I think.

SPEAKER_00: Cool.

SPEAKER_02: I'm gonna mute and then try the Twitter audio.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, can you confirm, Kim?

SPEAKER_02: It says the stream hasn't started yet since it's gonna scheduled for broadcast at 5 on Twitter.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, interesting. So I see a preview. Yeah, let's check it at 5. But you can see on YouTube, right?

SPEAKER_02: Let me load the YouTube. Just gonna mute. Audio is good on YouTube and everything.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, let's just wait until 5 and just make sure everything comes up.

SPEAKER_00: The tube.

SPEAKER_01: Things can stop in the tubes. You can't remember.

SPEAKER_00: At some point in my life, I was friends with a British person who made reference to the tube, but it definitely was pronounced Chube. C H U B E.

SPEAKER_01: Quite likely, yes.

SPEAKER_02: Great. Twitter's up. Audio is good and so is the visual.

SPEAKER_01: Okay. Taking you off. Taking you off the stage.

SPEAKER_02: Thanks.

SPEAKER_00: So from Streamyard, are we able to see like people trickling in or? Not really. It doesn't look like it.

SPEAKER_01: It does not appear so. So I'm. I think we can do it on YouTube, but I'm just keep trying to keep an eye on it in the background here.

SPEAKER_00: Because we could see if there were comments. But yeah, it doesn't seem like it's. I suppose we could try to join without audio potentially and just see also. So it's not a space. Right. It's a live.

SPEAKER_01: It does say live on Twitter. Yes.

SPEAKER_00: I wonder. How do I.

SPEAKER_02: Hold on.

SPEAKER_00: Checking the telegram. Okay, so we already had the links on the telegram, which I guess we should probably repost.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So on the. I can see the live. I can see us. Okay. Michael's posting it. I mean, I guess we should probably start in a second.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we can wait. Let's just wait a few more minutes.

SPEAKER_00: But it's a different feel from the. So, okay. Why do they have spaces and live?

SPEAKER_01: It's very confusing.

SPEAKER_00: Spaces are no video, but they're like a little more interactive.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: The live is just like you just sort of see or the broadcast here.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: Like I'm just sort of looking back at myself and it has Views on it, kind of.

SPEAKER_01: But.

SPEAKER_00: But that's it. Okay, I see some comments. Michael. Hey, Strato Mercado. Appreciate him. Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: We are still working through our AV issues so it's a.

SPEAKER_00: It's a constant state of affairs. It seems like it is lots of learning curve in the content creator game. Every, every startup founder, unwitting content creator. You know, we didn't want the world to be this way actually. Maybe it's better.

SPEAKER_01: I don't know.

SPEAKER_00: It's going to go direct to audience in a sense. Although is it really direct to audience if it's through the platform? It's like more direct than it could be, but.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly. I mean that the content is. I do think we need to find a way to kind of bring people in. We are going to read some comments today but it's like we'd like to make it more interactive in the future. But it does seem like X does not want to play nice with any multi channel platform.

SPEAKER_00: Mm, doesn't even like links.

SPEAKER_01: No, it does not. It definitely does not.

SPEAKER_00: I feel like let's just.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, I think we can get started now. Let me just share my screen. Thank you everyone for joining. If there are any AV audio issues, if people were on last week we were still trying to figure out our whole audio visual setup. So we are continuing that journey. So if there's any problems, please let us know. Post on our telegram or on any comment that's convenient. So today is a really exciting episode. We are announcing the winners of our Mercado V2 trading bridging and testing challenge. And yeah, it's been a really exciting time. I am filling in for Bob Summerwill, our normal host who is on a long delayed digital detox as well as honeymoon. So yeah, well deserved break to you Bob. Hope you're not watching but you catch up later. And with me I have Kieren James-Lubin, our CEO and head of and whale on Strato Mercada Testnet. How's everything going with you today, Kieren?

SPEAKER_00: You know, good. I feel like shark is better than whale for this.

SPEAKER_01: Can sharks eat whales? I don't know. You know, like blue whales, little ones.

SPEAKER_00: There's most whales are big but there are some smaller, you know, there are some smaller whales but I think on average whales are going to be bigger than sharks.

SPEAKER_01: Isn't there a whale shark? Maybe you could be a little bit of both, you know. So let me, let me share my screen because we're gonna jump right into announcing the Winners today. So as everyone knows from the who has participated. First of all, we want to say thank you to everyone participating. We got well over 30 participants this time, nearly doubling the the amount of participants we had back in January where we had like roughly about 20. So we had. And this was much oh, July. Thank you. Back in July. Time is going so fast and this challenge was particularly hard because we want to test the application and simulate real world events. So anyone that was following in the contest channel could see that there were special events that I triggered on the platform where there were sudden price jumps, there were air drops, there were all kinds of different events that affected the flow of the contest and made different opportunities both on the downside and upside. And Kieren, can you confirm with everyone I never shared when those events were happening ahead of time.

SPEAKER_00: You learned True. Yeah, I even, you know, I think Viktor may have specifically punished me even though I was ineligible for the prize. Like, you know, my gym hours are kind of predictable and I sense that Viktor put some of them when he knew I would like, you know, be on the treadmill or listen some weights or something and unable to reap the the profits that I normally do.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I cannot confirm to deny that I specifically looked at your calendar, but I can confirm I do have access to your calendar. So it may or may not have happened anyways. There were, you know, what was different from the July contest is the July contest was really simply about trading. We gave everyone one of each assets and they trade. Also we basically had a bug price basically based on volume of bugs. This time we want to make things a little bit more focused. We gave people assets on the Sepolia testnet that they had to bridge into the application. Like I said, we had these random events that happened throughout the contest. Then instead of giving generic bud prizes, we gave two bug prizes, one for the works worst exploit which was something that caused loss of funds. And then a best suggested improvement prize which is a specific improvement that would make it easier to use the application. We internally rated all the submissions that we got and then we came up with the winners. With that, I'm going to share a screen capture of the leaderboard as of yesterday 5pm when the contest ended. Kieren, you are at the top. But as it says your prize ineligible. Can you read out the name of who got the prize?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I don't know how quite hard pronounced this, but it's aspa.

SPEAKER_01: I'm gonna go with aspa. Yeah, they gave you a good run for your money though. I will say yeah, I guess.

SPEAKER_00: Like the, the balance says that both of us caught most of the profit making opportunities that were available in the system. So.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so people really wanted to know where did you get so much profit from? Because I think when you bridged in all your assets, you would have around, you know, 3,500 in that neighborhood. Like no, around 3,100. If you just bridged in the system, how did you wind up getting to like 5,400?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So starting balance.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I'm going to say 3,300, 3,200 thereabouts. So you, you go from zero to about 3,300 when you complete the bridging. There were two bridging activities. One gave you, I guess it was like half an ETH and the other gave some amount of USDT which you also had some just from registering on the network. So part of the trick in all of this, in this state of affairs is that we generally encouraged. And it's a little bit tricky right now if you wanted to use the same address on, well, I was going to say mainnet, but Sepolia really and our network technically were capable of it, but we're not really allowing it in the app. So there were two addresses you had to input and I think people got confused. So the first step is bridging in everything. And then I did find, as with the last contest, that there. So generally speaking it's, there are kind of two prices in our system. There are Oracle, sort of like governance controlled, if you will, spot prices. And that's what drives liquidations and the valuation of all the assets in there. And sort of with that, you know, maybe the one way to think of it is like if this asset had existed anywhere in the world, what would be worth? Like people know what gold is worth, right.

SPEAKER_01: So if you withdrew the asset, you could sell it for roughly around that.

SPEAKER_00: Probably the spot price. Yeah, right. Whereas swap pools, for instance, are intrinsic to the system and theoretically should converge to the Oracle price in when you're really running the thing, like, because you could bridge in and out. And so there would be an ARB like, like trading across two exchanges too. There would be an ARB if the spot price diverges from the. Sorry, if the pool price diverges from the spot price that you could take advantage of. And there was actually there was a little bit of ARB in the system. So. So even before any of these special events, sometimes like the ETH price would be too high because people are excited about rotating into ETH or wrapped bitcoin got high because people rotated into that, for instance, and there wasn't that much way to bring the price down. There was not too much sell pressure on it, for instance. So it kind of stayed high, I think. But mostly our, our prices had the pool price match the spot price. Except when Viktor.

SPEAKER_01: Viktor.

SPEAKER_00: So Viktor manipulated both as part of the contest, of course, at different times. So moving the spot price up lets people sell. Moving the spot price down, sorry, moving the swap, the pool price up means if you're holding that thing already, you can sell and book a profit if you move the pool price down. And we just did this with like admin mints, you know, on the test net. Yes. In effect, if you move the pool price down, this gives a buying opportunity and I actually did. So there are a couple times when the pool prices were low and I would borrow using our CDP mechanism and buy as much as I could of the, the asset that was underpriced and I would, you know, and so there was a little bit of ARB there too because the borrowing. And I would loop it right. So the borrowing power you would get would be proportional to the spot price. And so you could just kind of keep buying that same asset so long as the pool price was below the spot price and it was an instant profit. So I think that was most of the balance or different situations where that was. There were also like if you applied quickly, you would, you know, get, let's say 50 USDT. There was a bonus for bridging out just so that we would test bridging out, which I got. And there were liquidations. I was very briefly going to be liquidatable because Viktor created a very big price crash. But I got to it in time before anyone could, could liquidate me. And it was, it was a position that was kind of healthy. Was that like 1.8 health factor. But I think Viktor dropped the price like 50% or something.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I took some big swings because, you know, I want to exert my godlike or Fed chair like power as much as I could. Well, thankfully I didn't go completely power mad, but there were a lot of risks in the system and it was interesting how the system stood up to those risks that eventually, you know, prices started to kind of converge back into the right price.

SPEAKER_00: Indeed. But yeah, it was, it was good. It was so it was nothing too crazy. So actually in the previous contest also the eth price was moving a lot which created like. So people were excited about it and they like bid the spot price way over the pool Sorry, the pool price way over the spot price. And I was able to sell into that a lot in the other contest and there just wasn't as much natural volatility this time. So, you know, most of the profit opportunities were the special events. And again, the goal was really to test all, like nearly all the functionality that was in the app.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I think one thing that led to part of the stability is in the last contest, people asked for that spot price to be put beside the pool price. And, you know, I think that helped. People can make better decisions.

SPEAKER_00: That's right. Yeah. It lets you know when to enter versus not. There was less. Like, you know, I think a lot of DeFi encourages like really rapid buying behavior, you know, especially like the launch pads, you know, like, like pump fun or whatever you like. It's. It's just about who gets in there first. And our system is mostly not like that. So, you know, we, we want that spot price there just so people know, you know, if there's big divergence, there's profits be made and there usually shouldn't be a big divergence and you know, get, get good execution and so on.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So congratulations to asba. I guess that's how we say it. You know, excuse us if we're saying this wrong. Who is going to win 500 USDC plus Kata points and we have a little bit of information from as well, how they did it. Maybe you can react to it. Kieren. So their overall strategy was to diversify, leverage and wait for the right moment to be aggressive. Sounds similar to what you were doing, Kieren. And then, so what they said is made sure to take advantage of all the functionality SRI Mercado has to offer, from bridging to swapping to borrowing and lending to liquidity provisions and liquidations. So did you do any liquidations, Kieren, or were you just.

SPEAKER_00: You know, I get confused by our liquidation feature because it said in the UI like zero profit. And I realized later if I typed a number for the amount I liquidated in, I guess it would have. And maybe we have a max button. I can't remember. If we do, then it would have presented a profit opportunity. So I didn't liquidate and I didn't provide any LP tokens to the pool. So I think like in the short run, probably providing liquidity, you know, just in the timescale of the contest, the returns will be pretty small. Even if it was like 40% APR, like over a week, that's less than 1%. And so things will be dominated by sort of like whichever asset goes up the most. So I think in most cases what you want to do probably is just take the riskiest asset and hope in like a one week contest. In a sense that is where I stayed mostly in east except where there was a instant profit opportunity. But if you're going to use a bunch of leverage, then maybe you should diversify. So we actually have two borrowing paths in the app. So we have a CDP mint. That's how USDT gets out there. It's technically borrowed when you put collateral in and we have like a lending pool that's more like the secondary market for usdt. So the lending pool allows you to sort of spread the risk across a bunch of collateral. So if you had some collateral that's like way underwater. If it were by itself, that's fine potentially in the lending pool. Whereas the CDP is a little more conservative. And so you know, theoretically if you're going to have a diversified portfolio, might be and want to borrow, you might be better off using the lending pool than the CDP mechanism. It sounds like that's what ASPA did.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, and I'm going to add something to kind of relate to what you just said. So they said they were conservative with their borrowing, but they stumbled upon an Ethereum price tip event. Since they were keeping their loans healthy, they were able to borrow more at that point and use it to conduct liquidation.

SPEAKER_00: Interesting. Yeah, so I just looped at those profit taking times. But yes, borrowing is a good way to do liquidations. We've kept flash loans out of our system just because they're kind of complicated expert feature. But it's, it's a little bit the same. Right. Like you need, sometimes you just need, you may be in a healthy situation but you need some liquidity to liquidate and realize those instant profits. So yeah, it's a good way to do it.

SPEAKER_01: And the last comment I'm going to say from, from ASPA is perhaps my most unique decision was to spend time in the higher interest lower collateral lending pool instead of the low fee pool to increase leverage and have more access to capital at a given half health factor while decreasing exposure to single asset price tips.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I guess that's what I was saying too. So that is a reason to have we had some debate internally on like okay, so we've got a CDP and a lending pool. They're kind of both borrowing. Do we really need them both? The answer is yes based on or we at least need the cdp. But the lending pool is like a great convenience, easier to get in and out. You can just mint and then resupply to the lending pool. We also have the direct mint path which was part of the contest. So you could take USDC and USDT and immediately mint USD, usdst. We don't guarantee redemption because there's also the collateralized path. It helps maintain the peg. But I think it's good to have both. You know, I think for convenience sake, the lending pool is more convenient. You know, you can kind of move the collateral in and out, et cetera, and you know, provides yield back to people who mint the ustst one way or another.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean it's a pretty good strategy to kind of look for those profit opportunities. You know, I didn't participate this time because I was doing those special events. But you know, we had employees participating in addition to community event, community people. And I don't think that many people actually pursued that strategy about looking for high interest in the pools. So that was a good one and well deserved. Aspa, congratulations. Let's talk about the next two