SPEAKER_05: You are live. We are live. Hello, hello, and welcome everybody. Hello, hello. It's the week before ETH Denver, one of the major events of the Ethereum calendar—basically the regional event for North America. So that's coming up. As well as the usual Strato crew, we have Colin The Picker here. Is that how you pronounce your surname?

SPEAKER_00: Colin, yeah, that's correct. That's my name. Hi everyone. So yeah, I'm calling—is my actual name. Most people know me under the name of Shiba Tarzan, which is like the crypto name I use, but yeah.

SPEAKER_05: My actual name is Colin, so sometimes Shiba Tarzan, sometimes Crypto Tarzan. So yeah, the Twitter handle.

SPEAKER_00: Is Crypto Tarzan. I mean, that was my name that I chose when I initially joined the space. And then when we did our ENS thing with Boo, I had to come up with an original ENS name, and then it became Shiba Tarzan. I don't know how, but I came up with it. So I think it's quite funny if you think.

SPEAKER_05: About like the meme, I guess it sticks forever—like Victor Wong, that we've told the story of before. Yeah, probably is going to be the heritage handles story. So yeah, we're here: myself, Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem; Kieren James-Lubin, CEO; Victor Wong, CPO; and Michael Tan, who has got a little demo for us.

SPEAKER_01: Which we're going to start with. Sure. Hey everyone, so back here with another demo. Strato—for the last week and week and a half going forward, we're going to have—we're currently in a trading and referral contest, which I'll be showing you an update on. Let's start with that. So right now, our top gainer is anonymously 10210d28f, 4% gain. You know, not very much, so everyone's got a chance if you would like to have a late entry in. As for the referral contest, we currently have three by this user in our community, and yeah, a couple of referrals here. We're also going to be talking about the vault that we've added as of last Friday. Let me show you that. So this is the current position of all positions I have on mainnet. Deposit: 144.96 of GOLD, and I've currently earned $1.84. But let's do a little demo on the testnet. Make my first deposit here. This account currently has USDt and SOVE—and silver? Oh no, silver. Let's put five USDt. Firm deposit. Still pausing. Successfully deposited. Great. So if you click this link, you can see what tokens are currently in the vault. It's a market-making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools, and we give everybody an opportunity to participate in some of the APY. On mainnet, it's currently 102.67%, which is great. You can also find recent activity—the swaps by the vault—here. And this is all done with our automated market-making bot, which you can actually find a blog about on our website. And if you ever want to withdraw, you just hit the withdrawal and there.

SPEAKER_04: You have it. You hear me? Yeah, jumping on the bot quickly. So the APY is obviously phenomenally high. As the assets go up, it will probably not be as phenomenally high. It is measuring the true change in underlying asset value, so theoretically all the trades are profitable—or it doesn't do them. But it's also the inventory risk, right? Like it still has to hold ETH and so on, but it is up in absolute terms. And when you deposit to it, it's sort of one asset at a time, mark to market. So if you've got some GOLD tokenized, you deposit that. You've got some ETH, you deposit that, and so on. But you can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal. So you just get a sort of pro rata share of the bot's assets on withdrawal, which hopefully have increased. But just so you know—if you deposit and then you're confused when you get a basket of assets back, that's the why. But yeah, the APY is very high at the moment. We're excited about it. Everyone take advantage now while you can.

SPEAKER_05: Okay, well thank you. I guess we'll move on to Denver. Do you want to hang around, Mike? You look at you—are you coming to Denver? Yes, I'm arriving Monday night. Excellent. I was trying—I was counting how many times I've been to ETH Denver, and I think 2009 was my first, so I think this is.

SPEAKER_04: Maybe my third or my fourth. Anyone else veterans of Denver? I went early, and then I sort of—we had a few years where we just skipped it in our deep enterprise days. But I think we went and sponsored in 2017, actually, and it was still kind of had an organic feel to it. I think it still does. I mean, it's one of the unique ones. By the way, okay—how are the tickets done? I know we've dealt with it at a corporate level. It's a free event.

SPEAKER_05: Right, but yeah—is it like a lottery? Like, how do you—no, no, it's a bit weird. Yeah, so you can go for free. That's kind of a key thing. You know, it started out very hackathon-y, so it's always been grassroots, volunteers, no ticket prices for normies. But you have to join the SportDAO for your free ticket, so you have to do this onboarding. At least now, I think you don't actually have to use a wallet—I think you used to in some prior years. There seems to be like a Web 2.0 onboarding kind of flow, gasless, that gets you there. But there's quite a few screens of stuff to click through—that's for sure. Or you can just pay. But yes, I mean, I know the numbers are gonna be this year—probably around 20,000, from what I understand. That seems to be what the case was last time. How about.

SPEAKER_03: Yourself, Victor? You've been a few times. Yeah, like Kieren, I was there early, and then I think I went to gain my first kind of kickstart—was last year. Right, yeah. Now we're going back again.

SPEAKER_00: And I know it's your first time, Colin. Yeah, for me, it's gonna be the first time. I mean, I started actually going last year to ETH events, so this is the first time that there's like an opportunity for me to go to Denver. So yeah, I'm excited. I heard like a lot of different opinions—people say it's great, other people say it's kind of changed over the years and it's a bit more marketing-related and less core Ethereum stuff. But yeah, I mean, I'm gonna try to experience it for myself and see what it's all about. I mean, like I said, 20,000 people is still—I mean, it's the only major U.S. event I think there is in the year. So yeah, I'm quite excited to explore it. I think it's gonna be great. Also, they like changed the format from what I heard. Maybe Bob, you can explain a bit on like what changed there and if it's gonna have an impact on previous years. But yeah, I'm quite excited for my first time.

SPEAKER_01: Have you been before, Mike? Have you been before, Mike? Oh sorry, yeah—I was there last year with you. Oh yes, and that was your first. Yes, that was my first. There we go. So yeah.

SPEAKER_05: Colin, you were at Devconnect last year. I mean, I think yes—they're fairly comparable-ish sizes. I kind of think of like Devconnect as the European one and ETH Denver as the North America one—kind of similar-ish size. Yeah, it's just that like I feel like it had.

SPEAKER_00: A lot of side events. I mean, because for Devcon, the main event tickets were just super pricey—I think it was like 500 euros for tickets. And just like many people—many developers just came to get to Lisbon, and then they just went to all the side events to get free drinks, free food, always, and then try to connect somewhere, try to get a job. I mean, I spoke to like many people at Devcon that were actually trying to get a job into the crypto space, and they said, "Oh yeah, the main event is too expensive." So that's why I also think there were so many side events at Devcon. I mean, Lisbon is not that big. Bob, you explored it—I mean, compared to a city like Denver, it's super small. And then I mean there.

SPEAKER_05: Were so many side events—it was just incredible. Yeah, I mean, I think it's become the curse of the major events. They kind of become like a meeting point. You know, they're like, "All right, if you're there, like people will be there." Right? So they become like, "Are you going to be there?" And it's kind of not so tied even to the main event—it's just like, "Are you physically going to be in that place on those days? Yes, great. Where are you going to be? What are you going to be doing? I don't know. There's all these different side events. Just sign up for a hundred things and see what you get and see where people are." They can be very, very fragmented. I mean, my understanding of the move to Lisbon was partly to try and counter that because at least it's like a physically smaller place, so the side events have to be kind of closer together, so you're not so fragmented. What I felt when I went to Devcon the prior year in Brussels was very, very fragmented. I think that was kind of a really bad year that they had to sort of react to. And it has been a criticism of ETH Denver as well. I mean, one thing I've seen happening in Denver this year is like what happened in Devconnect—the world fair, lots of things under the same roof. There seems to be a push to that kind of thing—of saying, "Well, we're gonna get lots of threads under the same banner. Come to the main site and stay. There's enough going on that you don't have to leave. You've got these different threads."

SPEAKER_03: Happening. Well, I think one of the challenges that ETH Denver has—and I kind of felt this at Devconnect this year—is that the event itself is in the middle of nowhere. So you got to kind of make a call between like... a lot of the side events are downtown, so you got to kind of make a call of like, "Do I stay downtown or do I go out there?" And it kind of depends on who you're meeting. Really, sometimes it just makes more sense to stay downtown. A day here, a day in the middle, a day on the other side—there's no middle. That's the problem. Right? Like, there's just—you just gotta go one or the other. I almost—I tried a Bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuttle myself, and that was terrifying. I'll never do that again. I'm way too.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin one time, and it was like, "This is so dangerous."

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, in Austin. Wow. Okay, that's just like a rattly, crappy bit of road at the side—no helmet, just.

SPEAKER_05: Like, this is bad. Well, one of the things I saw as part of our sponsorship—which was quite interesting at ETH Denver—is they actually have a condition in there to be a sponsor of the main event that you have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours. I thought that was quite interesting. It's like, "Hey, you want to be in the gang? No straight competition." Because that's the real killer thing, right? It used to be side events were in the evening, days before, days after—and now it's just, "No, we're just having our main conference on exactly the same day as you—just straight competition." Yeah, it's funny how the norms have changed. Victor, you talked about that with regard to Ripple and Consensus.

SPEAKER_03: Oh no, it was Cypto's Toronto—Cypto's, yeah. They kind of got booted out, and then they made their parallel conference later. Though their parallel conference had—and this.

SPEAKER_05: Was a few short years ago, but very amazing and controversial at the time—that you would dare to have some competing content in the same city at the same time. Yeah, I mean, it was. And.

SPEAKER_03: Well, I think the big thing was they had these giant Ripple buses in front that like buried you. So it was just like, "Yeah." Also, in the days when they saw blockchain as a direct competitor to SWIFT—I think that chip is zeroed. I think it definitely is a competitor.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, I mean, talking about the corporate thing that you were mentioning there, Colin—so you know, there has been some criticism of ETH Denver specifically for having headline sponsors that are "Ethereum killers." Yeah, so it's like, "How dare you have Polkadot as a primary sponsor or BNB or Cosmos or what have you?" But they've always had a line. It's not like we had a token where you've got Tron everywhere and CZ's face pasted all over the shop. That's not happening, and you're not seeing BitBoy as a main speaker—has happened in Blockchain Futurist in Toronto. So there is a line, which I think is sort of being like "Ethereum and friends," with a number of those friends having become L2s or EVM-supporting over time. Anyway, it's kind of like a Big 10 vision. But also, saying that sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for.

SPEAKER_03: Normal people. Which is—well, now that Vitalik doesn't like L2s, do we still have that? Here we go. Yes, exactly. Well, the other thing that's a little bit different colored about ETH Denver is you have the hardcore dev conferences—Devconnect, Devcon—and then you have what I call the commercial conferences—Consensus, Token2049. These ones—but ETH Denver is kind of in the middle. I think they try to be the culture conference, but it's a little bit of.

SPEAKER_00: Both. So yeah, I think also—for example, Devconnect is almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation. They have a full Devconnect team for it, so that kind of makes sense. But from what I spoke to a few guys of the EF lately, they say they've been making their way more into Denver this year than they did before. There's going to be an Ethereum Foundation day, if I'm right. Yeah, there's going to be a full day for them, and they have a whole section also this time. So like you say, Victor, it's a bit in the middle this time. And absolutely, on other events like Token Dubai, Token Singapore—that's even more to the commercial side, and you won't see the EF that much there—not much of the core principles, I think. So yeah, I think it's a bit in the middle, but I see still a lot of chances and opportunities. I mean, it is still the biggest U.S. event—20,000 people coming there. There's still a big audience, so I think there's a lot of chances for them.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, and Kieren—like in the past, I think the first time we went, there were like a couple hundred people, and then next year it got huge quick. Yeah, it felt familiar.

SPEAKER_04: Right, it was kind of Denver—like down the street from the dispensaries, kombucha on tap. I assume that maybe still is there, but yeah, it had a kind of hippie agora feel to it, which maybe it still does. We're gonna see.

SPEAKER_05: The Sports Palace was a cool building. So apparently, I was wondering why it had the setup it had—which is like these sort of stories with ramps around between them. But apparently, it used to be a car warehouse place. That's interesting. But you just had this multi-level thing with sorts of ramps going up and around it, and some of them were talks. And there's only a few hundred—I might be getting this wrong, but I.

SPEAKER_04: Remember. So I think the venue has changed again at some point. It was like a rodeo? No, it's.

SPEAKER_05: The same. It's the same venue, but a different building on that same complex. I'd say. Gotcha. But I remember.

SPEAKER_04: I was catching up with John some years ago, and he was telling me just the legs he had to go to to deal with the amount of people who want to come—uh, which are pretty extreme, like on the order of renting out a stadium, which is pretty funny to me. Yeah, it's certainly a pretty.

SPEAKER_05: Major point of undertaking. But yeah, there has always been a large sort of cultural and artsy kind of part to it as well. So mainly involved with that is the Museum of Ethereum. So when you come into the venue, you go through the main ticketing—you there is going to be an area which is called Biddle Alley—New Biddle City—which is kind of a Blade Runner-y sort of futurescape, somewhere like Meow Wolf or Harry Potter Diagon Alley kind of vibes—of going through this area, and there are going to be various different sub-areas and zones in there. But yes, one of the large ones there is the Museum of Ethereum, which we are sponsoring—as our Golem of Devcon Zero presentation, age, and then ourselves, Devcon One era. So super OGs, still going. And it's a mixture of physical and digital artifacts, drawing largely from the early days of Ethereum—bios, interviews, everything. Also, some photos through 2014, largely from Taylor Gerring. Also, some of them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in April 2014. And then the other thing I've been working on for that—which I think is really, really cool—I've called the Ethereum Time Machine. So what I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software. So I have got two 2010-era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads. And so I was trying to get back to Frontier software. I can run Frontier software. However, the second phase is actually mining. So the goal I had is: can you run 2015-era software on contemporary hardware, CPU-mine the chain back to life? So that's what I've been working on in the background for a couple of months. Basically, like GPUs at first get the thing moving, and then as it's moving, the difficulty is coming down, and you're easing off. So I'm in the final phases of that. I wanted to revive Frontier—sadly, that's a very, very expensive proposition that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20k of GPU on. But yes, I have revived Homestead. So what you'll have there is running Mist at Homestead, CPU-mining transactions back and forth, sitting there, getting the real experience of 10-year-old software, original chain, original protocol. So that.

SPEAKER_03: Was fun. So to get to that optional in the real experience—or like, I'm sorry—is pulling out your hair and frustration optional or required? Because I remember a lot of that myself. I'm just hoping they don't crash too often. Yeah, I remember Mist crashing a lot—like when we were playing around.

SPEAKER_05: With it. So yes, there will be reboot instructions on hand. So there's also—are you that? There's also a big chunk which Jessica Angel, the creative director, has taken the lead on to do with some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other and light up different phases. And then there is also a centerpiece which is still in motion, so I won't talk about it. But yeah, the hope is that a good chunk of those 20,000 people are gonna walk in and experience a bit of Ethereum history, really touching on those early days and people that they may have no clue were around, and have a little bit of a flavor of what that year was like and get your.

SPEAKER_03: Hands on. And you're speaking on the main stage about it too, right? So like, I am talking about early.

SPEAKER_05: Days of Ethereum as well. Yeah, that's on this—there's a stage that's like storytelling or culture. I can't remember quite what it's called. It's called like New France Stage, I think. So yeah, I'll be giving a little talk there. Though likely what I'll do is play some ancient videos for people's amusement. There's really fun stuff from the very early days that a lot of people again won't have seen. I mean, particularly that Toronto Bitcoin Expo—so that was in April 2014, and it was like the second time probably that most of the people on the team had met each other. Some had met in Miami in January, and then some again met in April. But at that point, Ethereum was a company. Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event, and they had a booth and gave away hundreds or thousands of T-shirts and flyers. So it was the Ethereum company for the one and only time. Though with the new EF being engaged again—they're not being the company, but they are starting to have a presence at events again, which I think is a very positive thing to see. They're obviously never going to have an EF stand-up token or what have you, but having a presence at ETH Denver and Devcon absolutely makes sense. So hopefully they'll have a good presence. Yeah, no, I mean we're looking forward to see you.

SPEAKER_00: Speak, Bob. But I remember—you were kind of planning the same, or also speaking about Ethereum early days at Devconnect, but then there was all issues with the Wi-Fi or something or the internet. I remember. So I hope this time the internet is going to be good because I remember at Devconnect, so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything. It was super badly—the internet. And you can say, "Okay, it's Argentina," but I mean, come on—they should have at least decent internet. Hopefully.

SPEAKER_05: I mean, yeah—it will not be a problem in Denver. I can assure you. They've been there a good chunk of time, and they know what they're doing. But yeah.

SPEAKER_03: The Wi-Fi in Argentina was dreadful. Yeah, we went to off-site coffee shops for Wi-Fi. So I don't think it was a general Argentina problem. It was definitely.

SPEAKER_05: Just a capacity problem because there were so many people there. And the problem at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue like two or three hours before the event. It was an absolute rush job. But yeah, they did everything on volunteers.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, they had so many volunteers because, of course, most of the core organization of Secure Privacy were just traveling. It was at the beginning of Devconnect, so most of the people were just arriving, and they said, "Okay, we're gonna let it be run by volunteers to set up all." So yeah, maybe there was an issue, but it was great. Just—I think you just unfortunately couldn't do your talk there. But yeah, hopefully to see in Denver would be amazing.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, I mean, that talk I will record—I will re-record with them at some point. That still hasn't happened. But yeah, it was just a bit of a mess on the day. But Denver's fine—they've been planning it for perfect forever. So yeah, what's happening with Book of Ethereum? How's.

SPEAKER_00: How's things in your world? Yeah, I mean, we're trying to manage the winter period of crypto as we speak. It's crazy times actually, but we're doing our best, managing things. Just focusing on building the community—really making time to invest in community building. I think it's super important. I see these months as a big chance to improve UX, improve onboarding strategies, because I feel like that's something we still miss—in general crypto, Ethereum specifically. I mean, they always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on boarding, but then you also need to do something about it. And I see these times as pretty good to do it. I mean, there are slow volume days, markets are terrible at the moment, so it is what it is. So we need to look at other things to do now. But yeah, we're still really active, and yeah, it's gonna be our first time in Denver. And we'll do other events this year also—I think we'll be at Devcon also this year, and we're going to DefCon probably also in Mumbai. Really looking forward to that one as well. But for the rest, like we're just building the community, focusing on onboarding and UX. And I mean, we'll see when the markets pick up again. But for now, it's just a bit low volume. I mean, like I said, they call it the winter days. So yeah, we'll see—it's my first time experiencing this, so yeah, we'll see how it goes. But yeah, I feel like the sentiment all over is a bit lower. I feel people are kind of—not depressed, but most investors are at least a bit down and low sentiment because of these times. So yeah, do you—I mean, I think we all feel that a.

SPEAKER_04: Little bit. Do we prefer though—like the euphoria times have some real downsides too. You know, it's kind of hard. There's so much noise in the euphoria times. I kind of like the quiet times. Although it's been a weird past cycle—if you all believe in that—there's not really been much of an alt run-up like we had in the previous one. So I think the euphoria never set in to the same way. It's sort of been like still value accrual to staple assets mostly, and a few breakouts, but you know, it's not like it was.

SPEAKER_00: Um, yeah, no—I don't really believe in the four-year cycle or whatever it's called. I mean, I came in even after the last supposedly perfect four-year cycle. But I mean, I don't really know—if you ask those people, they can never really explain on what it's based. And even the best traders in the world cannot explain how the financial markets work—what is going to be the future. They all just gas a bit on their feeling and put things out of context to try to find an explanation for things. But yeah, for example, right now, if we look at Ethereum the asset just over the past two years, the way it's been moving, there is no real clarification for it—why it's going to a new all-time high and then again completely down. I mean, it feels like there is some unexpected market manipulation going on that we don't have under control in some way. I mean, you could say after the April crash last year, people like Tom Lee and others brought back some hype with their staking announcements and all these things, and the treasury companies—it was a big thing in the summer. And then you saw it doing very well. And then with the upgrade at the end of November that Ethereum did was massive. And you would think everything looked perfectly fundamentally for January and Q1. I mean, even Tom Lee did some crazy predictions on the price of Ethereum. But yeah, you see it's not what it looks like. It's not because fundamentally everything is looking fine that the price is going to that target. So yeah, in my opinion, it's just unpredictable. I cannot predict it—maybe you guys can. I cannot predict it. It's kind of hard, and it just is what it is. From my perspective, we have to undergo it and see what's going on and just focus on the building. Because like I said, I've said this also many times to our community: if you're not here for the building, the movement, the culture, then you will not last. If you're just purely here based on the temporary price of the assets, then you're never gonna be here for many years. So it's also quite a difficult space for.

SPEAKER_03: That. So yeah, it's just my opinion. Yeah, it's funny because my current thought about what's going on is—if you look at previous winters, they've been more internally focused. The thing you could point to that triggered them is something happening in the crypto sphere itself—like ICOs going bust or NFTs or meme coins or whatever. And now, a lot of things in the world are happening simultaneously, and crypto is just one of those things. Right? Metal prices have changed, equity prices have changed, currency prices have changed. So my current thing is that it is a little bit different this time because I think what's happening is crypto is becoming part of the macro infrastructure. And I think we'll look back and think, "Okay, this is the time that crypto did just become part of the regular financial system."

SPEAKER_05: Sorry—so moving more away from speculation and more to utility.

SPEAKER_03: Well, I mean, I don't know if it's more speculation or utility. You could call the stock markets affected by a lot of speculation too. But I think it's moving more toward a stable view of what people are and the use of it is becoming more stable and widespread. Like the number of holders—you know, I think the choices people have are not like, "Oh, do I move my crypto bags from one crypto to another?" It's like, "Okay, should I move it into metal?"—we saw that happening—or "Should I move it into other assets completely outside the crypto sphere?"

SPEAKER_04: A funny thing—and tokenization makes that a lot easier. We saw Eric Vorhes buy some huge quantity of PAXG and then hit the internet in a big way. And I think on balance, this is a good thing, although yeah, it makes you a little bit—it's not the old days. Right? And I've said before—it's unfortunate that ETH, Bitcoin, etc., seem to trade like a high-beta tech stock. They're risk-on assets still, and they're not behaving like metals, which are somewhat anti-correlated with what the stock market does. But the positive side is RWA can help achieve a certain type of practical day-to-day sovereignty where you have a basket of assets that are both resilient from a price change perspective. In addition, the RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk. But again, we've seen strange things—like stablecoins in circulation have doubled year over year a little bit more, and floating crypto prices went down. And there's no in-principle reason those things have to go together. I mean, eventually usage goes up, you'll see crypto prices go up, and then kind of a commodity way. But yeah, interesting times. Well, I think on that.

SPEAKER_03: Note, like the other thing that's not—you know, typically when we've had these other winters, total volumes have gone down, and that's not necessarily true now. So one way to think about it that I've been thinking of is that we thought crypto was the hedge against the mainstream markets, but I think the actual mechanism is DeFi. People are using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places, and because it's global and 24/7, it allows you to do that way more efficiently. So it's the rails themselves that are the hedge. There's a lot of.

SPEAKER_04: Leverage in the system now too. Still, people believe that the big sell-offs have been liquidation-driven. We saw the beginning in the FTX cycle, we saw the beginning on 10/10, and things are still shaking out. I've seen tweets today about BlockFi suspending withdrawals, so supposedly a bunch of big firms are just trying to manage maybe effective insolvency from leverage. And you know, it's just more leverage than before. The Hyperliquidts and the like kind of created 20x effective leverage out of thin air. I believe. And there's good use for these products, so it just means the swings are going to be bigger—the blow-ups and so on. So yeah, interesting times all around. Yeah, like what I also feel a bit.

SPEAKER_00: Is that—like what Victor has been saying—I think DeFi is gonna make a major move. I mean, it has to be also because, like I said, the stables have doubled. And I think that's also because people take less risks, and especially the builders are taking less risk—they're exploring ways like how can DeFi generate a passive income over time without needing to take unnecessary risk. And I think if you look into it, it's a big—I mean, like I said, I think if they can explore it more and we can actually do what people like Vitalik and Gavin would have been saying from the very beginning—like, "That's what you're gonna build on Ethereum," all the places to build applications. I mean, we haven't seen all the possibilities of Ethereum yet. Like, the past cycles, we've seen a lot of speculative things and the NFTs hype and everything, but the real upcoming trend of DeFi applications that are real businesses built by individuals—you don't need a big corporation anymore to start your own business on Ethereum. And I think that's gonna be a major one. Also, what I see recently is that in the past, it was very difficult for people who weren't software engineers to build something on Ethereum. But what you see now—and the EF is also quite bullish on all these things—is the agents, especially with the Clow Bot stuff that's going around now, the Mold Book. I mean, even we as a community have done our own ERC-8004 agent with now participating in hackathons for us, building things for us. I mean, we're exploring with it as well. It is the future. And I think a part of bringing people in—decentralized, the self-custody story and all these things—I think the opportunity for people who will never be able to build something or create something to now, with the invention of AI and agents, build their own DeFi applications. I think that's going to be something we're going to see in the next years. I feel like it's also something the builders are more pushing forward to. I mean, it's the subjects and topics everywhere right now—less like the highly speculative or volatile assets. So I think building infrastructure during this winter is going to be to your advantage. Yeah, yeah, and I totally agree with that because it's like.

SPEAKER_03: You know, without the noise—I