SPEAKER_05: You are live. We are live. Hello, hello, and welcome everybody. Hello, hello. It's the week before ETHDenver, one of the major events of the Ethereum calendar, basically like the regional event for North America. So that's coming up. So, as well as the usual Strato crew, we have Colin the Picker here. Is that how you pronounce your surname?

SPEAKER_00: Colin, yeah, that's correct. That's my name. Hi, everyone. My actual name is Colin, but most people know me under the name Shiba Tarzan, which is like the crypto name I use.

SPEAKER_05: My actual name is Colin. Sometimes Shiba Tarzan, sometimes Crypto Tarzan. The Twitter handle is Crypto Tarzan. That was my name when I initially joined the space, and then when we did our ENS thing with Boo, I had to come up with an original ENS name, and then it became Shiba Tarzan. I don't know how, but I came up with it. It's quite funny if you think about the meme.

SPEAKER_05: Like Victor's Victful Wong, we've told the story before. Yeah, probably, probably is going to be the heritage handle story. So we we we're here: myself, Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem; Kieren James-Lubin, CEO; a bit Wong, Victor Wong, CPO; three CPO; and Michael Tan, who has got a little demo for us, which we're going to start with.

SPEAKER_01: Which we're going to start with. Sure, hey everyone. Back here with another demo. Strato, for the last week and week and a half going forward, we're going to have a trading and referral contest, which I'll be showing you an update on. Let's start with that. Our top gainer is anonymously 102 10d28f, with a four percent gain. Not very much, so everyone's got a chance. If you would like to have a late entry, as for the referral contest, we currently have three by this user in our community, and a couple of referrals here. We're also going to be talking about the vault that we've added as of last Friday. Let me show you that. This is the current position of all positions I have on Mainnet. Deposit 144.96 of gold, and I've currently earned a dollar 84. Let's do a little demo on the testnet. Make my first deposit here. This account currently has USDT and SOVE and silver. Let's put five USDT for deposit. Still pausing. Successfully deposited. Great. If you click this link, you can see what tokens are currently in the vault. It's a market-making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools, and we give everybody an opportunity to participate in some of the APY on Mainnet. It's currently 102.67, which is great. You can also find recent activity, the swaps by the vault here, and this is all done with our automated market-making bot, which you can find a blog about on our website. If you ever want to withdraw, you just hit the withdrawal.

SPEAKER_04: You have it. The APY is obviously phenomenally high. As the assets go up, it will probably not be as phenomenally high. It is measuring the true change in underlying asset value. Theoretically, all the trades are profitable, or it doesn't do them. The risk is sort of inventory risk. It still has to hold ETH and so on, but it is up in absolute terms. When you deposit to it, it's sort of one asset at a time mark the market. If you've got some gold tokenized, you deposit that. You've got some ETH, you deposit that, and so on. You can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal. You just get a sort of pro-rata share of the bot's assets on withdrawal, which hopefully have increased. Just so you know, if you deposit and then you're confused when you get a basket of assets back, that's why. APY is very high at the moment. We're excited about it. Everyone take advantage now where you can.

SPEAKER_05: Okay, well, thank you. We'll move on to Denver. Do you want to hang around, Mike? You are coming to Denver. Yes, I'm arriving Monday night. Excellent. I was trying to count how many times I've been to ETHDenver. I think 2009 was my first, so I think this is maybe my thing or my fourth. Anyone else veterans of Denver? I went early and then sort of skipped it in our deep enterprise days, but I think we went and sponsored in 2017. It still kind of had an organic feel to it.

SPEAKER_04: I mean, it's one of the unique ones where it had an organic feel. It's a free event. Right, but yeah, it's a bit weird. You can go for free, that's kind of a key thing. It started out very hackathon-y, so it's always been a grassroots volunteer. No ticket prices for normies, but you have to join the sport to doubt for your free ticket. You have to do this onboarding, at least now. I think you don't actually have to use a wallet. I think you used to in some prior years. There seems to be a web 2.0 onboarding kind of flow, gasless, that gets you there. There's quite a few screens of stuff to click through, that's for sure. Or you can just pay, but yes, I mean, I know what the numbers are gonna be this year, probably around 20,000 from what I understand. That seems to be what the case was last time. How about yourself, Victor? You've been a few times.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, like Kieren, I was there early and then went to gain my first kind of kickstart last year. Now we're going back again.

SPEAKER_00: And I know it's your first time, Colin. Yeah, for me, it's gonna be the first time. I started going to Ethereum events last year, so this is the first time that there's an opportunity for me to go to Denver. I'm excited. I heard a lot of different opinions. People say it's great, other people say it's changed over the years, more marketing related, less core Ethereum stuff. I'm gonna try to experience it for myself and see what it's all about. The format has changed from what I heard. Maybe Bob, you can explain a bit on what changed there and if it's gonna have an impact on the previous years.

SPEAKER_01: Have you been before, Mike? Have you been before, Mike? Oh, sorry. Yeah, I was there last year with you. That was your first. Yes, that was my first there. We go. There we go. So I mean, I think yes, they're fairly comparable sizes. I kind of think of like ECC is the European one, and ETHDenver is the North America one. You see just that like I feel like it had a lot of side events. I mean, the main event tickets were just like super pricey. Like 500 euros for tickets, and just like many people or like many developers just came to get to Ken and then just went to all the side events to get like the free drinks, free food, always, and then try to connect somewhere, try to get a job. I spoke to many people at ECC that were trying to get a job into the crypto space, and they said the main event is too expensive. That's why I think there were so many side events at ECC. For a location like Ken, it's not that big. Bob, you explored it. Compared to a city like Denver, it's super small, and then there were so many side events. It was incredible.

SPEAKER_05: I think it's it's it's become the curse of the major events. They they kind of become like a meeting point. If you're there, people will be there. It's not so tied to the main event. It's just like, are you going to be there? Where are you going to be? What are you going to be doing? I don't know. There's all these different side events. Just sign up, sign up for a hundred things, and see what you get and where people are. They can be very fragmented. The move to Ken was partly to counter that because it's a physically smaller place, so the side events have to be closer together. You're not so fragmented. When I went to ECC the prior year in Brussels, I felt that was very fragmented. That was a bad year. There has been a criticism of ETHDenver as well. One thing I've seen happening in Denver this year is like DevConnect, if kind of like the world fair, lots of things under the same roof. There seems to be a push to that kind of thing, saying we're gonna get lots of threads under that same banner. It's like come to the main site and stay. There's enough going on that you don't have to leave. You've got these different threads happening.

SPEAKER_03: The event itself is in the middle of nowhere, so you've got to make a call between staying downtown or going out there. A lot of the side events are downtown, so you've got to make a call on who you're meeting. Sometimes it makes more sense to stay downtown. A day here, a day in the middle, a day on the other side. There's no middle, that's the problem. You just gotta go one or the other. I tried a Bird scooter for the first time last year, trying to shuffle myself, and that was terrifying. I'll never do that again. I'm way too old for that.

SPEAKER_05: I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin one time, and it was dangerous.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, in Austin. Wow, okay. That's just a rattly, crappy bit of road at the side, no helmet.

SPEAKER_05: This is bad. One of the things I saw as part of our sponsorship, which was quite interesting at ETHDenver, is they have a condition to be a sponsor of the main event. You have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours. That's quite interesting. It's like, hey, you want to be in the gang? No straight competition. I mean, that's a real killer thing. It used to be side events were in the evening, days before, days after, and now it's just we're having our main conference exactly the same day as you, straight competition. It's funny how the norms have changed. Victor, you talked about that with Ripple and Consensus.

SPEAKER_03: Oh no, it was Cybos Toronto. They kind of got booted out, and then they made their parallel conference later. Their parallel conference had Ripple buses in front that buried you. It was just like, yeah, you know, also in the days when they saw Blockchain as a direct competitor to Switch. I think that chip has zeroed. I think it definitely is a competitor.

SPEAKER_05: There has been some criticism of ETHDenver specifically for having headline sponsors that are Ethereum killers in quotes. Polkadot as a primary sponsor or BNB. You've got Tron everywhere and Justin Sun's face pasted all over the shop. That's not happening, and you're not seeing BitBoy as a main speaker happened in Blockchain Futurist in Toronto. There is a line which I think is being like you know, Ethereum and friends with a number of those friends having become L2s or EVM support over time. It's a big 10 vision, but also saying that sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for normal people.

SPEAKER_03: Now that Vitalik doesn't like L2s, do we still have that here? Exactly. The other thing different about ETHDenver is you have the hardcore DevCons, and then you have the commercial conferences, Consensus, Token2049. ETHDenver is in the middle. It's the culture conference, but it's a bit of both. The Ethereum Foundation has a full DevConnect team for it. There is going to be an Ethereum Foundation day this year. They have a whole section this time, so it's a bit in the middle. Other events like Token Dubai, Token Singapore, that's even more to the commercial side. You won't see the Ethereum Foundation that much there, not much of the core principles.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, and Kieren, like in the past, the first time we went there were a couple hundred people, and then it felt familiar.

SPEAKER_04: It was kind of down the street from the dispensaries, Kombucha on top. It had a hippie agora feel to it, which maybe it still does. We're gonna see.

SPEAKER_05: The Sports Palace was a cool building. The setup had these stories with ramps around between them. It used to be a car warehouse place. You just had this multi-level thing with ramps going up and around it, and some of them were talks. There were only a few hundred, I might be getting this wrong. The venue has changed again at some point. It was a rodeo. It's the same venue but a different building on that same complex. I remember catching up with John some years ago, and he was telling me the legs he had to go to deal with the amount of people who want to come, which are extreme, like renting out a stadium. It's a major point of undertaking. The thing I'm involved with is the Museum of Ethereum. When you come into the venue, you go through the main ticketing, and there is going to be an area called Biddle Alley New Biddle City, a Blade Runner-y futurescape, Meow Wolf, or Harry Potter Diagon Alley vibes of going through this area. There are going to be various different sub-areas and zones. One of the large ones there is the Museum of Ethereum, which we are sponsoring as our Golem DevCon Zero presentation, Age of DevCon One Era. It's a mixture of physical and digital artifacts drawing from the early days of Ethereum, bios, and interviews. Photos through 2014, largely from Taylor Goering, also from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in April 2014, and the other thing I've been working on, the Ethereum Time Machine. I've got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads. I was trying to get back to Frontier software. The second phase is mining, so the goal is can you run 2015 era software on contemporary hardware, CPU mine the chain back to life? I'm in the final phases of that. I wanted to revive Frontier, but that's a very expensive proposition. I have revived Homestead, so you have running Mist at Homestead, CPU mine transactions back and forth, the real experience of 10-year-old software, original chain, original protocol. There will be reboot instructions on hand. There's a big chunk which Jessica Angel, the creative director, has taken the lead on to do with some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other and light up different phases. There is a centerpiece still in motion, so I won't talk about it. The hope is that a good chunk of those 20,000 people are gonna walk in, and they're gonna experience a bit of Ethereum history, really touching on those early days and people that they may have no clue were around.

SPEAKER_03: You're speaking on the main stage about it too, right? Like I am talking about early days of Ethereum as well. There's a stage that's like storytelling or culture. I can't remember what that's called. It's called like New France Stage. I'll be giving a little talk there. I'll play some ancient videos for people's amusement. There are fun stuff from the very early days. A lot of people won't have seen it. The Toronto Bitcoin Expo was in April 2014, the second time probably that most of the people on the team had met each other. Some had met in Miami in January, and then some again met in that April, but at that point, Ethereum was a company. Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event, and they had a booth and gave away hundreds or thousands of t-shirts and flyers. It was the Ethereum company for the one and only time. The new Ethereum Foundation is engaged again. They're not being the company, but they are starting to have a presence at events again, which is a very positive thing. The Ethereum Foundation day at ETHDenver and ECC is absolutely makes sense.

SPEAKER_00: I remember like I think you were planning the same. I mean, or like also speaking about Ethereum early days at DevConnect, but then there was like all issues with the Wi-Fi. I remember like DevConnect, so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything. The internet was bad. You can say it's Argentina, but come on, they should have decent internet. Hopefully, this time the internet is going to be good because I remember like DevConnect, so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything.

SPEAKER_05: The Wi-Fi in Argentina was dreadful. It's not going to be a problem in Denver. The Wi-Fi at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue like two or three hours before the event. It was an absolute rush job. They did everything on volunteers.

SPEAKER_00: They had so many volunteers because the most of the core organization of Secure Privacy were just traveling. It was at the beginning of DevConnect, so most of the people were just arriving. They said, okay, we're gonna let it be run by volunteers to set up all. Yeah, maybe there was an issue, but I mean, it was great. You were unfortunate you couldn't do your talk there, but hopefully to see in Denver would be amazing.

SPEAKER_05: That talk I will record. I will re-record with them at some point, but that still hasn't happened. We're excited about it. Everyone take advantage now where you can. I mean, it was just a bit of a mess on the day, but Denver's fine. They've been planning it forever. What's happening with Book of Ethereum? How's things in your world?

SPEAKER_00: We're trying to manage the winter period of crypto. It's crazy times. We're doing our best. We're managing things, just focusing on community building. I think it's super important. I see these months of big chance to improve UX, improve onboarding strategies because I feel like that's something we still miss in Ethereum specifically. We always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on, but then you also need to do something about it. I mean, because they always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on, but then you also need to do something about it. I see like these times are pretty good to do it. I mean, like there's slow volume days, markets are terrible at the moment, so we need to look at other things to do now. We're like really active still. This is gonna be our first time in Denver now, and we will do other events this year also. We're going to ECC also this year, and we're going to DevCon, probably also in Mumbai. I'm really looking forward to that one as well. For the rest, we're just building the community, focusing on the onboarding and UX. We'll see it's my first time experiencing this, so we'll see how it goes. I feel the sentiment all over is a bit lower. People are kind of down and low sentiment because of these times.

SPEAKER_04: A little bit. Do we prefer the euphoria times? The euphoria times have some real downsides. It's hard to be there. There's so much noise in the euphoria times. This past cycle, if you believe in that, there wasn't an alt run-up. We had in the previous one, and the euphoria never set in to the same way. It's been a weird uh this past you know cycle if you all believe in that um um there's not really been any much too much of an alt run-up you know which we had in the the previous one and so i think the euphoria never set in to the same way it's sort of been like still a value accrual to to staple assets mostly and a few breakouts but you know it's not like like the like it was um

SPEAKER_00: I don't really believe in the four-year cycle. I came in even after the last supposedly perfect four-year cycle, but I don't really know if you would ask those people they can never really explain on what it's based. Even the best traders in the world, they cannot explain how the financial markets work, what is going to be the future. They all just gas a bit on their feeling and put things out of context to find an explanation for things. You look at Ethereum the asset just over the past two years, the way it's been moving, there is no real clarification for it. It's going to a new all-time high and then again completely down. It feels like there is some unexpected market manipulation going on that we don't have under control in some way. You could say after the April crash last year, people like Tom Lee and others brought back some hype with their staking announcements and all these things. It was a big thing in the summer, and then you saw it doing very well. Then with the upgrade in November that Ethereum did was massively. You would think everything looked perfectly for January and like Q1 in common. Even Tom Lee did some crazy predictions on the price of Ethereum, but you see it's not what it looks like. It's not because fundamentally everything is looking fine that for that reason also the price is going to that target. It's unpredictable. I cannot predict it. Maybe you guys can. It's hard, and it's just what it is. I'm from the perspective that we have to undergo it and see what's going on and focus on the building because if you're not here for the building, the movement, the culture, then you will not last. If you're just purely here based on the temporary price of the assets, then you're never gonna be here for many years.

SPEAKER_03: It's it's it's funny because i i my current thought about what's going on is that if you if you look at previous winters and you know i know we've been through quite a few years but like they've been sort of more internal focused like the thing you could point to that kind of triggered them is like something happening in the crypto sphere itself like ico is going bust or nfts or meme coins or whatever and now um you know it's really a lot of things in the world are happening simultaneously and crypto is just one of those things right like metal prices have changed equity prices are changed currency prices have changed and so i i i my current thing is that it is a little bit different this time because i think what's happening is crypto is becoming part of the macro infrastructure and i think we'll look back and kind of think okay this is the time that crypto did just become part of the regular financial system i think

SPEAKER_05: So moving more away from speculation and more to utility.

SPEAKER_03: Well, I mean, there's speculation in the stock markets. You could call the stock markets affected by a lot of speculation too, but I think it's moving more toward a more stable view of what they are and the use of it is kind of becoming more stable and widespread. People's view on what they are and the choices that people have are not like, oh, do I move my crypto bags from one crypto to another? It's like, you know, it's clear that people are considering, like, okay, should I move it into metal? It's like we saw that happening, or should I move it into other assets that are completely outside the crypto sphere.

SPEAKER_04: Tokenization makes that a lot easier. We saw Eric Voorhees buy some huge quantity of PAXG, and then Bitcoin hit the internet in a big way. I think on balance, this is a good thing, although it makes you a little bit. It's not the old days. I've said before, it's unfortunate that Ethereum, Bitcoin, etc., seem to trade like a high beta tech stock. It's a risk-on asset still, and they're not behaving like metals, which you know are somewhat anti-correlated with what the stock market does. The positive side is RWAs can help achieve a certain type of practical day-to-day sovereignty where you have a basket of assets that are both resilient from a price change perspective, in addition, you know, the RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk, but we've seen strange things like so stables in circulation have doubled year over year, a little bit more, and floating crypto prices went down. There's no in-principle reason those things have to go together. Eventually, usage goes up. You'll see crypto prices go up, and then kind of a commodity way, but you need enough liquidity and whatnot to see all that happen.

SPEAKER_03: One way to think about it is that we thought crypto was the hedge against the mainstream markets, but the actual mechanism is DeFi. People are using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places, and because it's global and 24/7, it allows you to do that way more efficiently than you know. It's the rails themselves that are the hedge. There's a lot of leverage in the system now too. People believe that the big sell-offs have been liquidation driven. We saw the beginning kind of like in the FTX cycle. We saw the beginning on 10/10, and things are still shaking out. There's good use for these products, and it just means the swings are going to be bigger, the blow-ups, and the so on.

SPEAKER_04: There's more leverage than before, the hyper liquids, and the like kind of created 20x effective leverage out of thin air. I believe there's good use for these products, and it just means the swings are going to be bigger, the blow-ups, and the so on.

SPEAKER_00: What I also feel is that DeFi is gonna be, I'm making a major move. It has to be also because the stables have doubled. I think that's also because people take less risk, especially the builders. They're taking less risk. They're exploring ways like how can DeFi generate a passive income over time without taking unnecessary risk? I think if you look into it, it's a big. I mean, I think that's also because people take less risks and especially like the builders they're taking less risk they're like exploring ways like how can defy like generate a passive income over time without like needing to take unnecessary risk and i think if you look into it it's like i mean it's a big i mean like i said i think if they can explore it more and we can actually do what like um people like if italic and and gavin would have been saying from the very beginning on like that's like what are you gonna build on ethereum and all the places to build like applications i mean we haven't seen i think all the possibilities of ethereum yet um like i said the past cyclists we have seen a lot of speculative things and we have the nfts hype and everything but like the the the real like upcoming trend of defy applications that are real businesses built by individuals also you don't need a big corporation anymore to start your own business on ethereum um and i think that's gonna be a major one also what i see recently is that like for like in the past it was very difficult for people that were no like software engineers to build something on ethereum but what you see now is and the ef is also quite bullish on all these things that are the agents especially with like the claw bot stuff that's going around now the mold book um i mean even we as a community um we have done our own erc 8004 agent with like now participating in hackathons for us with like building things for us i mean we're exploring with it as well um it is the future and i think um a part of like bringing people in decentralized you know the self-custody story and all these things i think the opportunity for people that will never be able to build something or to create something to now with like the invention of ai and agents to build their own defy applications i think that's going to be something we're going to see in the next years i feel like um and it's also something i feel like the builders are more pushing forward to i mean it's kind of the subjects and topics everywhere right now uh and less like the highly speculative or volatile assets you know so i think building building infrastructure during this winter is going to be in your advantage um yeah yeah and i totally agree with that because it's like

SPEAKER_03: You know, without the noise, I said in the article, I didn't know if this was just because I'm Canadian and I have a fondness for winter generally, but there is a quiet building that happens. You know, Ethereum itself would have never launched at the time it did unless it was for the winter we had. It also forces you to focus on what is really meaningful for the future. I think that's the you know that's one like no one likes the pain of bad prices, but it does allow you to kind of refocus your efforts on things that are on a smaller number of super important things.

SPEAKER_05: It's good as long as you don't die. As long as you don't get completely wrecked.

SPEAKER_00: Basically. I mean, that's what I mean. It's hard to build products, but like fully be dependent on the price of your assets. You need to find solutions for that. I said like with stable coins, like building up yields, farming yields, all these things, generating your fees, and everything. There's so many possibilities you can explore. I mean, it's also because of the long bad times, especially on chain. If you look on chain, there has never been a good moment since I think the just before Trump got elected. I think it was the last time we saw some big on chain volume. Since then, all those teams, they need to look at other opportunities. I think that like the actual projects that are building the assets of them will recover in due time if they can adapt to this new way of moving, and those that will adapt, I think those will be the ones that are going to be successful. If you cannot adapt and if you just stay in the old format of like, oh, we're just gonna do some hype, and you know, just purely based on no value, no fundamentals behind it, then I think it's just gonna die. But if you actually can adapt to the future and use all of these things and push forward, I think better times are ahead, but you just gotta continue. I think the real projects that are non-stop continuing to build, I think those will be the ones that will make it eventually.

SPEAKER_03: You gotta take a broader view. If my thesis of that crypto is now part of the mainstream is correct, then you're not just comparing to other crypto projects. You're comparing to legacy banking systems that were built in the 70s and haven't been updated. The question is, are people going to trust their money on those systems, or are they going to move to global decentralized 24/7 systems? For all of us, the answer is obvious, but the world is just starting to catch up to it.

SPEAKER_00: It's a really important moment now because a lot of the banks are starting to get into crypto now. They want to bring crypto to their platform so they can handle their customers directly because there's coming more and more interest. People want to buy Ethereum, people want to buy Bitcoin, people want to buy Solana, or whatever, and the banks need to provide for it. They want to push forward with new laws to be voted so that the banks are allowed to handle crypto and stuff, but I see already like kind of issues with it. It will be purely people that will own the asset, and they will see it purely as an investment. Unfortunately, what I'm seeing is that people, if they go with the bank way, they will never be able to explore their full potential. They won't even be able to have their own ownership of the wallet. The bank will host it again, like they always do. They're just gonna see it as a new way of stock investment type of thing. They're not really knowing what's going on, so that's why I think as a project now in the on chain space and in DeFi, you really have to focus on onboarding and UX because there is a lot of potential now to get people on. I wouldn't say your side, but to get them into DeFi so they don't choose the banks. Because otherwise, we're going to get into a big trouble where it's going to be a fight whether the banks can onboard more people or whether we can onboard more people. I think that's something to look into, and especially it's