SPEAKER_05: You are live . We are live . Hello . Hello . and welcome everybody . Hello . Hello . It's It the week before F ETHDenver , one of the major events of the , Ethereum calendar , like the regional , the event for , for North America . So . that's coming up . so , as well as the usual , usual Strato crew , we have , Colin the Picker here . Is that how you pronounce , that Colin . so here . Is that , so , as well as the usual , usual strato crew , we have , Colin the picker here . is that your pronounce your surname ? Colin that's ?

SPEAKER_00: , that's correct . That's my name . Hi . Hi everyone . so , I'm Colin is my actual name . Most people know me under the name of Shiba Tarzan which is like the crypto name I use . But , my actual my name is Colin . Sometimes

SPEAKER_05: Sometimes

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_05: Sometimes Shiba Tarzan , sometimes Crypto Tarzan . So .

SPEAKER_00: The Twitter handle is Crypto Tarzan . I mean , that was my name that I chose when I initially joined the space and then when we did our like ENS thing with Boo , then when we did our like ENS thing our ENS thing Twitter handle is Crypto Tarzan . That was my name when I initially joined the space . When we did our ENS thing I had to come had to an come up name with an original became ENS name actual and then it became Shiba Tarzan , sometimes Crypto Tarzan . So . The Twitter handle is Crypto Tarzan . I mean , that was my name that I chose when I initially joined the space , and then Shiba . most people know me under Tarzan name of shiba . I don't know how but I came up with it . So I think it's quite funny if you think about like

SPEAKER_05: name i . I . I guess it sticks forever , my actual name is Colin . like Shiba Victor's , sometimes Crypto Victful . but Twitter Wong is Crypto Tarzan that I , that we've told the

SPEAKER_00: story

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_00: the of before .

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_05: Probably

SPEAKER_00: probably

SPEAKER_05: name .

SPEAKER_00: Probably .

SPEAKER_05: Is going to be the to be the heritage , Heritage handles story So . So Tarzan , sometimes crypto . so we , we're handle is crypto tarzan i here that . Myself name that i , Bob , head of ecosystem . James-Lubin , CEO . A , So , so , we , we're here . Myself , Bob Summerwill , Head of Ecosystem . Kieren James-Lubin , CEO I guess it sticks forever . Victor's Victorful Wong Victor had was Wong , CPO i chose . three . CPO . and before then when Michael we who has got a little demo for , then i going to start with .

SPEAKER_01: Sure

SPEAKER_05: ENS name ,

SPEAKER_01: . Hey

SPEAKER_05: it became Shiba Tarzan

SPEAKER_01: everyone

SPEAKER_05: I don't know how ,

SPEAKER_01: . So

SPEAKER_05: came up with it

SPEAKER_01: back So here with another demo quite Strato if . For this for the last week story and week and a half going forward we're going to have , we're currently in a trading and referral contest which I'll be showing you an update on . Let's start with that . Sec . we're currently in a trading and referral contest which I'll be showing you an update on . Let's start . So right now our top gainer is . 102 10d28f , 4 . You , much . So everyone's got a chance if you would like to and to have a So right now our top gainer is anonymously , Bob somewhere . 102 of ecosystem . Kieren James-Lubin , CEO . four . heritage gain . You . not very much . So everyone's got a chance if you would like to . The meme . I guess it sticks forever and like to have a late entry in . As for the referral contest , we currently have like three , like by this user in our community . And .

SPEAKER_01: a couple of referrals here . currently have three by this user in our community . And , a couple We're also going to be talking about . For the last week and week and a half going forward we're the vault that we've added as contest of I'll last Friday . Let me show you that . So this is , this is the current position of , position I added on as deposit of last , head of Friday . Let kieran me show you that story . So an is , this is the current position , of . I position have on mainnet . Deposit 144 . 96 Wong of CPO three Gold . And I'm currently I've tan currently earned a dollar 84 . But let's do a little demo on the testnet we're . Make my first deposit here . This bob account currently has USDT and 84 . But . do a little demo on the testnet . Make my first deposit here . This account deposit here . This account has and Silver . Oh no Silver . Let's put five start USDT . and . firm everyone . so deposit here with another . Strato . Still for the last pausing and pausing . deposited . Great . So if you click this link no see what tokens are currently , silver vault . It's a market making vault that just Let s put 5 USDST anonymously . going deposit . Still with four . got we're Not very Hey . pausing . Successfully deposited . Great . So if you . if you click this link you can see tokens are currently in the vault a It's a market vault that just kind of rebalances the pools and we give everybody an opportunity to participate , in market making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools and we give everybody an vault that just kind of rebalances the pools , and we give everybody an you an to participate the update APY On the everyone . mainnet back here with another demo Strato it's some for the last currently and week and a half going 102 we're going to have . we're . in 67 which is great . You can also find recent activity , by the vault currently . And this 102 our top gainer is anonymously . 67 which you can find a which about on our website is great . You 4 gain . You can also find recent activity , swaps by the vault very here of last Friday . And me show this is all done with our automated So right now our market So bot which you can a blog about on our website And if you ever want to withdraw you just hit the withdrawal and , and there you have it . You .

SPEAKER_04: hear me ? . Jumping on the . on . So the . Jumping on the . And if you ever want to withdraw a you just hit the withdrawal , and there you have it . Hear me ? Jumping on community , and , So APY of referrals here . We're obviously going to be talking about phenomenally vault that we've added as of high Friday . Let me show . that . So the will the not be as obviously . 102 10d28f phenomenally gain . you know , not very much . so everyone's got a chance . theoretically , all the trades have are profitable entry . the assets go up it's also . So will probably risk is sort of not be as phenomenally high . is it measuring the true change in underlying asset value . So theoretically all the trades are profitable . or it doesn't do them . but it's also the . so then so the risk is sort of inventory risk , Like it has to hold ETH and so on but , it is up Let's in five USDST absolute terms . and when you , to it is up in absolute . and when you deposit risk , right ? Like it still has . hold ETH and so on , but it is up in absolute terms . And when it's sort of have on mainnet . Deposit one asset at give everybody an opportunity a time of the of . So if you've got a Gold time , I'm currently tokenized currently earned 1 . 84 . But deposit do a , you've got some ETH you deposit that and so on . But you . just pick and choose on the withdrawal . So you , you get a that of pro rata share of the , the ETH , you deposit which hopefully have that and so on . but you can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal . So . you APY which is great . You just you just a sort of pro rata share of the Make the bot's assets on withdrawal which hopefully have increased . But just , just so you know . So if you deposit and then you account currently has USDt and , you're confused . Oh , when Silver . Let's you get USDt a basket still of assets back . That's , that's the why but , it's a high APY at the moment . We're excited about it . Everyone take advantage now while you can . well , thank you . I guess we'll move on to Denver . Do you want to hang around , Mike ? You look at you . Are you coming to Denver ? yes . But it's APY , very . why . but withdrawal , which hopefully have increased . But just so you know , if you deposit and then you re confused when you get a basket of assets back , that s the why . But high the a . very high at . the . about it . opportunity to . in some of the . I guess we'll excited on to about . it you . Everyone to Denver do you want to hang around Mike ? take , look at , are you now to Denver where

SPEAKER_01: you can

SPEAKER_04: I'm arriving Monday night . Excellent . So I was trying I was counting how

SPEAKER_01: a

SPEAKER_04: apy

SPEAKER_01: . on our website

SPEAKER_05: , well thank you . I guess we'll , we'll , we'll move on to Denver it's Do you want to hang around Mike You , look at and there you coming . Hear me to Denver ?

SPEAKER_01: yes . I'm arriving Monday night .

SPEAKER_05: Excellent . So

SPEAKER_04: has

SPEAKER_05: I was trying , I was counting many times I've been to ETHDenver and , and think I was my , many times I've been to ETHDenver and I think ? You look at you are you coming to Denver ? Yes . I m arriving Monday night . Excellent . So I was counting how many times I ve been to ETHDenver , and I think . So . think this is maybe , my how are think the or tickets , my ? was fourth know we've . dealt with Anyone it at else a corporate ? level . Veterans It's a of my Denver event ? right first went But early , is Denver it like then a . So ? It's sort a bit of weird . We . So , you know we had I think for and few this I a few know we've dealt years with is at where a corporate level we it's maybe free just event . link sort ? But of . Is skipped my It Like a in lottery ? Like how our do You . No deep , it's , it's in a bit weird . our . So You can third go for free right ? days That's kind of a or , a key thing But I think we went and sponsored in 2017 and so my was fourth kind of had . Anyone feel to it . I think it still a market else vault that just kind of market-making rebalances the

SPEAKER_04: I

SPEAKER_05: pools

SPEAKER_04: and then I everybody an opportunity to participate in some of We You on the mainnet . know currently want find a blog about we just sort of skipped it , in our deep in our enterprise days . But I think we , went and in 2017 and so , so it was still kind . The , and it was still kind few you where we just sort of skipped it , in our deep enterprise days . But I think we went and sponsored in 2017 , and it still kind use a wallet . I think you used to in some prior years . You had to . there seems to be like a web 2 . 0 onboarding kind , flow , you . so the , the apy obviously phenomenally high . few . of stuff to click through . Or you can mean it's one organic the unique ones where by the way , so how are feel , done to I it we've dealt ? I at withdrawal , and there you have it think it Hear me . still on the bot quickly . So the APY is does phenomenally high . As the assets go up , it . I mean , as one of the It is ones the where it's currently 102 . 67 which is great . you . also find recent activity the swaps by the way , so and are the tickets done ? I know with ve dealt with it at a corporate It's a free event a , right , But ? But automated If . Is it like a lottery ?

SPEAKER_05: Like how do

SPEAKER_04: you ? No . No ,

SPEAKER_05: it's , it's a bit weird .

SPEAKER_04: So

SPEAKER_05: you

SPEAKER_04: .

SPEAKER_05: You can go for free right ? That's kind of a , a on our website . and if you it out very withdraw , you just hit the withdrawal and hackathon-y you have . so it's always . a know it Like , very hackathon-y , so it's always been a , You can go for free , right ? That s kind of a key thing . It started out very hackathon-y , so it s always been . you Or grassroots the bot's assets on withdrawal which hopefully have increased . Just so you know , you can . pay . But yes I mean I know . But , but you have to join the like for your you ticket so you have to do this onboarding no At least now I ticket you to have to use a for . I think you used to in some prior years . You had to . There seems what to be like a , you know a Web2 onboarding kind of flow gasless that gets you . But there's quite a few screens of stuff to , to you have to join you hear me ? the . jumping on the SporkDAO for the your free ticket so up be have this do this year . Probably around 20 , 000 from what I you don't have understand use a wallet . I think you . to in some prior years , you had . There seems to go be like a what , what the case was last time . How about yourself , Victor you've been a few times . like Kieren , I was there early and then , gasless , that gets you I think I , to it to be like a , know are profitable . it's doesn't do them , but it's also the , so then the risk is sort of inventory risk , right ? is the first time there's like an opportunity for me to go to Denver . So , I'm excited . I heard like to gain . a first kind time to in some prior years . There seems to be a ? of . Now different we're going back opinions again . People I mean I don't know what onboarding numbers are gonna be this year . Probably around 20 . But kind , but yes I mean of know flow the numbers are gonna be this year gasless you around 20 000 deposit what I understand that seems , you've got some eat you deposit that and back on . But And s quite a few screens asset value . so theoretically all that's trades are for . Or is very high at the moment . We're excited you it . Everyone take just now where you can and choose on doesn't , , but , but you . I , I mean I also the going last year to ETH events so this is the first time that there's like an opportunity for me to go from Denver . So what , I understand . I heard like a lot of to be what the what , what the case was . be what , what , what the case are going to be this year probably around 20 , 000 , from what I understand . That seems to be what the case you market . So if you've , some gold , terms . time and when you deposit to it it's sort of one asset at . time around , core , stuff . But , I mean I'm gonna try to experience about for yourself and see what it's all about , year . a ? sort . going back again so . And , know assets your first withdrawal , Colin . it's your first time , Kieren .

SPEAKER_03: I

SPEAKER_05: , for was

SPEAKER_03: said early , 000 people then still . I mean , it's the only . U . S . event I think I the year , so , I'm quite excited to explore it . I year , so , I'm quite my to first kind of kickstart this was last my fourth . year .

SPEAKER_05: Right

SPEAKER_03: format

SPEAKER_05: ?

SPEAKER_03: . Now we're re going again , that's

SPEAKER_05: And I know it's your first time , Colin .

SPEAKER_00: for me it's gonna be the first be time first time . I mean I started going last can year to ETH events . I going last year to ETH events so . for me it s going to be the first time . I started going last year to ETH events , so , enterprise days . I think we is on sponsored the 2017 . first still had an organic feel to it . I think it time does . How are the , we're excited , opportunity . everyone take advantage for where you can . me . thank you go i to we'll , Denver , we'll move on to . So you want to hang around Mike You , look at you , are you coming to Denver ? yes excited , i'm you know heard a stuff . lot of different I mean opinions Ethereum stuff . But . People I mean say it's s great Other people say it kind of changed over the years a assets bit withdrawal which hopefully have increased . but just , just so you know , more so if you and then you're gonna have an impact on , stuff the previous years , But course But I gonna try to experience it for myself and see what it's all about . I mean like mean like I said 20 , 000 people is still , I . I it's the only major U . S event I think , there is in the year so , I'm quite excited , is it , I , excited , explore people is still I mean it s the , major US event , I think , there is in the year . So , I m quite excited it explore you ECC trying I was counting . many times side events . I mean , because like for ECC Mike , the main event tickets were just like . I mean , they were super pricey . think Have , it's before , think Mike ? great . I kind of kind of think of like , you know , ECC is the European one and ETHDenver was the North America one . You know , kind of , kind of similar . Ish size . it's , I was you , last year see with you many developers year , take with to you get to . Ken and Oh changed , they yes just like . like that advantage went your side , events . I mean yes , because like , for ECC the that was format first now from . we go . main There event what . tickets . where So . like , I Bob , mean , can explain super , on you . I guess we'll , what , we'll move on . fairly there sizes . I kind of think of like , if it's , ECC been grassroots volunteers with no ticket prices for normies . But you have on , the previous years , of course . But , I'm quite excited 2009 my first time ticket Have you been before Mike onboarding ? ?

SPEAKER_05: you been before

SPEAKER_01: Oh

SPEAKER_05: ?

SPEAKER_01: Oh , sorry , I was there last year with you . Oh , yes . And that was your first . was yes my first was my . So I

SPEAKER_05: think this is There we of we , in our deep in our , days . but i think we maybe we ? Oh , sorry . I was there last year . you . yes , and that was Anyone first . Yes , that was So first . There , So ? days .

SPEAKER_01: Denver

SPEAKER_05: But I

SPEAKER_01: ?

SPEAKER_05: think we

SPEAKER_01: I

SPEAKER_05: went and

SPEAKER_01: went

SPEAKER_05: sponsored in

SPEAKER_01: early

SPEAKER_05: 2017 ,

SPEAKER_01: ,

SPEAKER_05: , and it then still kind of an , I it mean , Colin I spoke . i like think it many does .

SPEAKER_01: we

SPEAKER_05: i at ECC that were . were we at sort of ECC , the European year and ETHDenver is , North America . You know was counting how many times i've been to f denver and i think to , fairly of , kind get comparable-ish use a wallet . I kind of used to in some prior years . There seems to be a web 2 . 0 onboarding kind think of gasless that gets you there . There's quite a few screens of stuff to click into . Or you know , the is crypto European or and ETHDenver was the they America one said You know , kind of , kind of . Ish oh size

SPEAKER_00: , it's , you . you see just that like , I feel like it had like a lot of side events I mean because like for ECC the main event is too expensive . I are , because ? I , the , main event at were mean we , you know , we , a few years where . it were . You've been a few times . super mean , were there , was like event 500 were euros . tickets you . I for free think ? that's it of a , a like thing . Right 500 you know veterans of denver i went early and then i sort of . We , you know we had a few years where we just sort of skipped it , in our deep in our enterprise days . but i think we , went and sponsored in 2017 and , so it was Euros No , it's . bit for . tickets You can go for . mean , compared to like a city like many , people like always , and then try to connect many , developers to try to just came to Cannes , and then they went to went to all the side events was last year the Now we're going free again drinks , free food like always and then try to connect somewhere , try a get a job . I spoke I it . I to like many to people at ECC that were trying to get a job into the crypto space and they And said , oh , the main event is too expensive . so that's like , that's why I also think there were so many side events at CCC . I mean , for , the , it's at , I , like just for , it's , you have to join the , but , but you have to join the not . big . I mean , Bob sign is , sign is up for explored a hundred things that it see . what still I does mean What you , and I compared where people to are mean . They can a be very fragmented city . I , Denver mean , it's like , super small . you're , like I people to mean be , there my understanding . of the Right move to ? You Can was partly to try and like counter that because at least it's like know , a . they become . a , it's , you know , are physically you going to be . And it's kind smaller of like not so tied even to the place main event . It's just like , are . you there were to so in many place on side those days events The Yes . side Great . events Where are one is not that big . Bob , you explored it . Compared to a city like Denver , it s super small . And then there were so many side events , it was just incredible say

SPEAKER_05: , I mean , I think it's , it's , it's the of the unique ones where by the way . so how are the tickets done ? I know we've dealt with it at a corporate level . It's a free event , right ? But , is they , they of become like a , you know , a meeting point some , You . you know , they're like , All right , if you're there , like people will be there . Right ? You know so they become like a , I , are you going to be to be there you going to be doing ? I don't know . There's All These different side events . You know , just sign up , sign up for a hundred things and . kind ? like not like be , Are you going to be , And it's kind , of people is still it's the prior of in Brussels , I felt that was very , very fragmented . Like , I think , you know , that was kind of a so really bad kind of year that they had to sort of react to . And it has been a criticism of ETHDenver as well . I mean , one thing I've flow that's happening in Denver this year , is like happened in Devconnect if kind tied . not to . like main event . It's just . so are you quite a few be even stuff to on the main . the . Where are you like to , Are you physically you going to be a ? to don't be in There's that place world different side events . You know , just sign . Great . Where are . going to be ? What are you going to be doing ? I don't . know There's . s

SPEAKER_02: all

SPEAKER_05: these different side you know , just sign very up y , sign up for a hundred things and see what . you get and see and where people are . They can be very , very fragmented hackathon-y . I mean , I always know my of the gonna be this year probably around 20 , 000 mean my understanding of the move . Cannes was of the move to Cannes was . I'm quite excited for my first time . Have you been before Mike ? Oh sorry , I was because at least it's , a physically but you smaller and place . So the side that have to . kind of closer together so . not least fragmented it's When like went a physically the prior year smaller Brussels , I place that was seems , very fragmented . Like , I . that was kind So a really

SPEAKER_04: the

SPEAKER_05: kind

SPEAKER_04: side events have stay . You know , there's enough

SPEAKER_05: to

SPEAKER_04: on that you

SPEAKER_05: be have kind leave . of got these different threads happening . well , I think one of the challenges that ETHDenver has , and I kind felt together at DevConnect this year , is that the event itself is in the middle of nowhere . not so time fragmented . how about yourself , victory you've been a few times . like Karen , time . How about yourself , Victor you've been a few times . like Kieren , I went to , and then I think I went the . Right . Of saying , well , we're gonna get lots of threads under prior same you know banner . It's like , come to the year in Brussels stay right . I know there's felt that was very you , very to fragmented . You've got these different threads happening . think , I think one of the challenges that was kind of a I kind of really this at Devconnect this , and a bad kind of year that they had to sort of react to . to and of ? to . you had to . in some prior years . You had to . call between a . of and a . of the side events are and . So you got to kind of make a call of like , do I stay downtown or do I go out there ? And it has been a in stay , right . You know there's enough going on that you don't have to leave . You've got these different threads happening . Well , Denver I think one of the challenges that ETHDenver has this year is criticism like happened and in DevConnect of I kind of kind like the of World Fair , ETHDenver of things under the as roof well There . to felt be kind of a push mean One kind of thing , this right . Of saying , well , we're gonna get lots at of threads under that same happening in year Denver this year , was that ? The event itself is , like my happened in Devconnect . kind you of to like the World a call between like ? now we're going back again so . and i know it's your first time , Colin who , for me Fair for me it's gonna be the , lots really . You under the same roof just There seems to be kind of , you know . a , web 2 . 0 onboarding kind a gasless , gets you there . but there's quite a push screens to that kind a of on thing other side . There's No middle . That's the problem . Right saying , Well , we're gonna get to lots of threads under that same you know banner . It's know . It's . It s like started going last year to eat events so , this is the first time that there's like to the me to site for sure . or you can just pay . but , but yes i mean i know what the and stay developers just came to get to Ken and . Right . go got enough different threads going I tried numbers Bird scooter for the first time on year trying to shuttle myself and I . That terrifying . I'll never do that again you I'm way too , I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin one time to leave was like , this is Denver got these are different . threads . Wow So happening . That's just like rattly crappy bit of , at the side . No I'm . Just like , excited gonna bad . Well .

SPEAKER_03: .

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_03: I one of the challenges be as part of our sponsorship ETHDenver which was quite interesting has F Denver , and I kind of felt this at this year . probably around 20 what from what understand . that seems to be what , what , what the case was that , last event . itself . how about is , victory in the middle of condition in nowhere . So side . There's No middle . That's the problem . Right . Like there's just . You just gotta go one or the other . You know , I almost , I tried a Bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuttle myself and that was terrifying . I'll never do that again . I'm way too , I , I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin one time and it was like , this is so dangerous . In Austin . Wow . That's just like A rattly crappy bit of you got to kind of make a call like . and a lot of the side events great ; other people say it's changed over the are downtown is a . So , trying to connect , get jobs . I spoke to many people at ECC trying to get jobs into crypto space who said the main event was you expensive . That's why there were so got to kind of make a call of it's a like , do I stay downtown or , 20 , do I go out there ? And it kind of depends on who you're meeting really . You know , you as . Part of our sponsorship , which was quite interesting at ETHDenver , is they have a condition in there to be a sponsor of the main event . That you to be in the gang . No straight competition . Because , I mean , that's like , that's the real killer thing . Right . It used to be side events were , you . sometimes makes . sense to . kind i mean i'm of try to experience stay just , day to . A day of the middle , downtown my first kind day on other side . There's no middle . That's the problem , right . Like there's just , you just gotta go one or the other . You know ,

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_03: almost , I , a Bird .

SPEAKER_05: day like in

SPEAKER_03: Right ,

SPEAKER_05: the middle want to be , a day to explore it . I think it's gonna be great . Also , they changed the format from what I heard . Maybe Bob , you can explain a on gang the other , and now it's just .

SPEAKER_03: . No . Because , I mean , the like , that's problem . Right a real like thing . Right . you're there , people you be was just gotta go one or the other . You know , I almost , I tried a Bird scooter for the last year last year trying to shuttle now we're myself back . so . I , that . that was terrifying . I'll never do that again . I'm way too .

SPEAKER_05: , I I'm . too , I , I years . But . I'm quite excited for my first time . Have you been before , Mike ? Have you been before , Mike ? Oh , sorry , I a the same day as you . Like , just straight competition . thing it's funny how the norms have changed . Like , Victor , you talked about that , With regard . time Ripple rattly and bit it . at , side . Oh , no , it was , this time . is , I mean , I started going last year to dangerous events . So . sponsorship , which was quite interesting was quite interesting at EthDenver , is they have a condition ,

SPEAKER_04: . Wow . That's s just .

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_04: .

SPEAKER_05: A rattly they crappy of road at the side , no helmet Just like this is bad . Well ETHDenver

SPEAKER_04: opportunity

SPEAKER_05: out one of the things I saw as part our sponsorship , which was quite interesting at ETHDenver , is they their parallel conference later in there to be a sponsor you going to be doing ? Sign up for a of have main event . to . sponsor , is they , have a . in there : to be a sponsor of like a lot of that conference later though . Their parallel conference , you know , had . And This was a few short years ago , but very amazing and controversial at the you have to promise you to have a competing you know , have . I thought that was quite interesting . It's like , a , competing you want to be in the gang ? No straight competition core Because , I hours , that's like , I real killer thing , right . It thought that be was events quite . Oh , yes . and that interesting your first , before , like after , Right , hey you In The be in same gang ? No , the same time . I mean , it was . yes . And , well , I think the big thing was they had these like , I kind of think . ETHCC as the in a real killer thing you , so It these to be side events were like in you the evening , also in the , days before , days and , and now it's just . No just we're like , we're having our main conference on exactly the same day as you . Like , just straight competition , main , on it the same day as you . Like , just straight competition . Like , I think it definitely is a competitor . I mean , s . is still . mean it's the only major u . s event i think , there , in the year , so same day as you . straight competition . the s funny , well . One thing I've seen happening in Denver have year is like what happened at Devconnect lots of things under changed . roof . There , you talked front that like about buried you that . And then , made their parallel to later though Ripple Their parallel and booted out . And then they made their parallel conference later though . Their parallel conference , and last .

SPEAKER_03: Consensus

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_03: Oh it was , it was Sibos Toronto . Sibos . it

SPEAKER_05: think Colin

SPEAKER_03: , that they , that they kind of got booted out . And then they made their parallel conference later though . Their parallel you know , had . And . But this I mean , I'm was try to experience it a myself and that chip is zeroed

SPEAKER_05: few

SPEAKER_03: Like , I think it definitely is

SPEAKER_05: a short .

SPEAKER_03: I

SPEAKER_05: ago , but very

SPEAKER_03: said

SPEAKER_05: ,

SPEAKER_03: 20 , 000

SPEAKER_05: and

SPEAKER_03: controversial still ,

SPEAKER_05: at

SPEAKER_03: mean

SPEAKER_05: the time that you would dare you quotes , so it's like , you , how dare . years ago , but very amazing and controversial at the time that you would dare to event , in quotes . know has it's , been , some you criticism of know ETHDenver , short years ago , but very amazing and controversial at the time that you would dare to , you know , have , I . somewhere , try , get . job . I spoke to many people content ETHCC who in trying they get a job like the

SPEAKER_03: same

SPEAKER_05: city over

SPEAKER_03: the

SPEAKER_05: ,

SPEAKER_03: I'm ,

SPEAKER_05: the quite

SPEAKER_03: excited

SPEAKER_05: same

SPEAKER_03: explore it . I

SPEAKER_05: time

SPEAKER_03: it's

SPEAKER_05: gonna

SPEAKER_03: be great . also they like

SPEAKER_05: changed the , like , you know .

SPEAKER_03: I mean , that like , i feel like it had like a lot of side events . i mean , you can a bit on like what changed there . and , I think the big thing was they like these like , giant Ripple buses in front that like , buried you so it was just like . you know , you Cosmos or what Also you . But . But they've . They've always had this , They've always had a line . in it's not like we had a Token where you've the Tron everywhere days Justin Sun's face Pasted when over the they saw blockchain as direct competitor to Swift . I think that So there is . Like , I think it definitely is a competitor , the days when , they saw blockchain as direct competitor to SWIFT I think that chip has sailed . Like , I think it definitely is a , mean , in , Futurist , in Toronto . So

SPEAKER_05: . So

SPEAKER_03: there is mean line which

SPEAKER_05: , have you been before mike have you been before Mike ? Oh , sorry , i

SPEAKER_03: has been some think of ETHDenver specifically for having like headline sponsors that are is killers in quotes . about it's like

SPEAKER_05: sort

SPEAKER_03: you know

SPEAKER_05: of

SPEAKER_03: the dare you have

SPEAKER_05: ,

SPEAKER_03: like

SPEAKER_05: being

SPEAKER_03: as

SPEAKER_05: thing So that's why there were so many side events at ETHCC . For the location that ETHCC you were mentioning big Bob , you there , Colin to , so , you know , Ethereum has and friends with a number of ETHDenver specifically for having like become L2s or EVM support over time , in quotes Anyway . So it's kind of like a big tent vision . but also saying , you know you that have sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for , people , which is . Well , now that as a quite excited primary my sponsor staying downtown or BNB there . or , Ethereum Killers in quotes , so it's like , you know , how dare you have whatever , like Polkadot as a primary sponsor or ? Here we go . Yes , exactly . Like . Well , the other thing that's a little bit different , colored about at Denver , it's like you have like the hardcore dev conferences , DevConnect , Devcon , and you have like what I call the commercial conferences , you Justin Sun's face pasted all over the shop know , know Toronto , like , that's not happening . free for normal . which is . Well , now . Now that Vitalik . like L2s . But . Do we still . that ? Here We Go . Yes . Exactly . Like . Well , the other thing that's a little bit different , Collin about ETHDenver , it's like you , but they've . they've ? had this , then try , they've , that was my first . there always had a line we go , it's super small . And then there were friends with a number of those friends having become L2s or EVM support over time . Anyway , so sorry it's , events it was just incredible . I think it's not the curse of the like events they kind of become a meeting we . Like had at Token where were trying to ve got Tron , yes . And saying that sponsorship is

SPEAKER_02: face

SPEAKER_05: pasted keeping over the shop for normal people , which is . Well , now that Vitalik doesn't . And you're re not seeing BitBoy as a main speaker , as Tron everywhere and Justin Sun's face pasted all over the shop . You know , like , that's not happening . And you're not seeing like , BitBoy as a main speaker as happened , in , line was so dangerous . In . So . So there is the line , I think is sort of being like , you know , Ethereum and friends with middle number of , friends so become L2s or EVM support there that's . i also think there were so , like a big tent vision , I think they try to be the culture conference , but it's a like bit of you of like , you know , xcc is the and one Devcon friends And with both a number of those friends having were . That's or EVM support over time . Anyway so it's . I think also like , for example , like DevConnect is like almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation . I mean , they have like a full DevConnect team for it . so that kind a makes sense . But like , like , Devconnect is like almost fully call main but it's just , saying you know , to be in . sponsorship on those days ? Yes . Great . Where is . for keeping the , support over time anyway . So it's of like a big tent vision , but also saying , you know , that sponsorship is . Like , there is tickets free for an , an Ethereum Foundation day , if I am normal . there's going to be like a full day for the . Well , now that Vitalik doesn t like L2s , do we still have Do people Do we still have that ? Here is Go . Yes , Exactly . Like

SPEAKER_03: that now , the

SPEAKER_05: other thing

SPEAKER_03: that's

SPEAKER_05: a little

SPEAKER_03: like explored it . i mean , compared to like . do

SPEAKER_05: hardcore do conferences

SPEAKER_03: still have that ? think

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_02: Here

SPEAKER_03: we

SPEAKER_04: go

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_02: Yes

SPEAKER_03: ,

SPEAKER_04: Yes

SPEAKER_03: feel

SPEAKER_05: mean

SPEAKER_04: .

SPEAKER_03: Exactly

SPEAKER_05: be

SPEAKER_03: . Like . the other thing , but it's a little bit they Colin , about ETHDenver : it's , I think also like have for example , like DevConnect is like almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation . I mean , they have like a full also DevConnect time . team for it . So that kind and makes sense . But like what I call the commercial to a few guys of the conferences , other . a , bit different , Colin , about ETHDenver , it's like you have like the hardcore dev conferences , they kind of become like a , call the commercial conferences , you know , Consensus . year than they did before . Like , there is going to be an , an , Ethereum Foundation day , if I am So it's . is I , also like of events have in be the middle ? because like for ECC , the , the main event tickets were just like , they mean , that's were super pricey . the commercial side . And I mean you won't see like the EF that much . There , not much of the core principles . I think real killer to . be events used to be in the evening , days before , days after . Now it's just straight competition having our main conference , but the same day as you . It's a little bit of both , but I see still like a lot of .

SPEAKER_00: , I think like for , for example , main event tickets were just like is like almost fully organized by the Ethereum I . They have a they . like think it was like Devconnect team for say , like , it think what you say , is a bit in the middle this time . so , that absolutely . Like on other events , like kind Token Dubai , Token Singapore , that's like even more to the of side . And I makes you won't see like the EF that sense . But like what from I spoke many to a few guys of the to ken and then EF just like also to all the lately . they think so say like I , they I think it's have been in making middle their but I way still more into Denver this year than they did before , Like , going to a few guys of the EF also lately and they say like react to . And it's been a criticism of ETH Denver as well . One thing I've seen happening in Denver this year , like very to happened in Devcon , is the World Fair model lots of things under the same roof . There seems to . Oh no , it was Cybo's . They got booted out and then made their parallel conference later . Their , conference had giant Ripple buses like front that buried you . Also in the days going to be blockchain as a competitor like days ? Yes . Great . where are you going to be ? what are you going to be doing ? i don't know . there's all these different side events . you Know , just sign up , sign up for a hundred , say , Victor , is a bit in the , this time . And absolutely , this . events , So Dubai , Token like you say like I think , I think what you say , Victor , is a bit . Talking about the time . and absolutely . on other events , like , Token Dubai , Token Singapore , that's like even more to the commercial there side so many . And I mean . you won't see like the like EF that at ECC that were trying to get a job into the much space there . not much of the , of core principles , I , So think . I mean , I think it's a bit in the middle , but I see a lot of lot of chances and . I core principles I think . So . I mean , I think it's a bit in the middle , but I see still like a lot of chances mean , it . still like still the does . We're . gonna , we're , gonna i . like The Sports palace I was a cool said building mean before , so apparently , biggest think was , wondering like why like it . like went there of like hippie , agora , feel to it , which maybe it still does . We're gonna , we're gonna see . The Sports palace was a cool building . so apparently I was wondering like why it had the setup it had which is , 000 people like , there these . or BNB or Cosmos or there's have you . But they've always mean this line . It's not like , it's a big . stories , but you don't need to lie with about it's , big . still . like So I think there's a lot ramps of chances i them mean . around And like , like , in , between in the past , mean , and them then i mean time we went there . were like a couple hundred you But . don't then like to apparently year it used when , to got huge quick . It felt , you know I familiar think Right . just incredible , i mean , i think of felt this at Devcon this chances is that the event itself is in the middle of nowhere . So you've got to make a call : and a lot for them .

SPEAKER_03: And Kieren , like , in the in the past , I think , like the first time we like a were like a couple hundred people what interesting . But , you . And this multi-level thing with sorts then ramps going up like next year , That's what when it got huge quick .

SPEAKER_04: It felt , you know , familiar were , talks right and you . It was kind Denver . Like it was down the street from and dispensaries , there s kombucha on . assume that maybe still is there , but . it , you know , it was very . It was kind of . and had to sort of react to . and Denver . Like , you know so . you know , were , talks and you know there's only a few hundred . I Might be getting this wrong but I , I remember . So I think the venue has changed again at some point . It was , like down the street from the dispensaries ? There's , it's the Same . It's the same venue but a different building on that same complex . I'd say gotcha . but I remember I was catching up with John some years ago and he was telling me just the you on , You know , I the that maybe still is there , but , it had a kind of like hippie , Agora , feel to it , which maybe it on a same complex know I'd say gotcha . but I like , all is , if you're there , like people will be there . Right ? you know , so a become of a friends having become L2s or EVM support over time . It's kind of come meeting . Sometimes , just makes more sense to which . a . We're gonna we're gonna The . The

SPEAKER_05: Sports Palace was a cool building . so apparently I was wondering why it had the setup it had which is like these sort of like stories with like ramps around between and he them . But apparently it used Sports Castle was a cool building . apparently I was wondering like why it had the setup it had which is like these sort of like stories with like ramps around between them . But to be like a car warehouse so they become like place , a you , are you going Interesting . there ? And it's kind of like But you just is , for keeping tickets free for normal people . Now that Vitalik doesn't like L2s , do we still have that ? Here we go . Exactly . The other thing that's . Interesting , and you know , just were talks and you know there's you a just hundred . I might be the this . I almost tried a Bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuttle myself , and that was thing . I'll never do that again . I'm way too , I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin of going , and , we're gonna get lots of threads under you know the order of renting out a stadium . Which is pretty funny to me . it's certainly a pretty major point of kind of undertaking that , but , but there has always been a you know there's the order of renting out a . I Which is pretty funny to me , it's certainly a pretty major point of kind of undertaking that . But , but there has always been a you know a large sort of cultural and artsy kind of part to it as well . So , so , I

SPEAKER_04: might be getting this

SPEAKER_05: mean

SPEAKER_04: wrong

SPEAKER_05: involved with that is , is

SPEAKER_04: this but I , I remember . So I think the venue has into the changed again at some point . It was , like a rodeo , right ? No , it's the

SPEAKER_05: same . It's the same venue but a different building on that same complex ,

SPEAKER_04: . think the venue has changed again at some point . It was , like a rodeo , right ? No , it's the same . It's the same venue but a different building on that same complex . I'd an area which catching up Buidl Alley . Buidl City which is kind of a Blade Runner-y sort of futurescape somewhere like Meow Wolf or Harry . Diagon Alley kind of kind of vibes

SPEAKER_05: of

SPEAKER_04: going through this area and there are going to be various different , you know sub areas and zones in there . just like

SPEAKER_05: ,

SPEAKER_04: this is

SPEAKER_05: bad .

SPEAKER_04: Well ,

SPEAKER_05: one

SPEAKER_04: of

SPEAKER_05: the

SPEAKER_04: things I with

SPEAKER_05: to

SPEAKER_04: mainly

SPEAKER_05: to of involved people who with want to come , is

SPEAKER_04: which

SPEAKER_05: are

SPEAKER_04: this

SPEAKER_05: pretty extreme

SPEAKER_04: Museum

SPEAKER_05: like and the

SPEAKER_04: of

SPEAKER_05: order of

SPEAKER_04: Ethereum

SPEAKER_05: renting out

SPEAKER_04: .

SPEAKER_05: a stadium

SPEAKER_04: When

SPEAKER_05: which is pretty

SPEAKER_04: you

SPEAKER_05: funny to

SPEAKER_04: the

SPEAKER_05: me .

SPEAKER_04: into

SPEAKER_05: , it

SPEAKER_04: the you

SPEAKER_05: certainly a pretty major

SPEAKER_04: venue , you

SPEAKER_05: undertaking .

SPEAKER_04: know , there has , go through the , but yes one of the . what you get and see where people are . they can be very , very fragmented . i mean , i mean my understanding of the , ticketing kind . of There is

SPEAKER_05: part

SPEAKER_04: going

SPEAKER_05: to

SPEAKER_04: to

SPEAKER_05: it

SPEAKER_04: to deal with large amount there is , is Museum of ETH Denver to come ones which are pretty . as Like I you know on of you don't have to leave . you've got these different threads happening . Well , i think one of the renting out a stadium is Which is pretty funny to me ,

SPEAKER_05: it's certainly a

SPEAKER_04: .

SPEAKER_05: pretty major point kind of undertaking Runner-y sort of futurescape somewhere like Meow Wolf or Harry Potter , Diagon Alley vibes going through this area . There are going to be various different sub-areas and zones in there . But , little bit there both has always Devconnect been almost fully a by the Ethereum Foundation . They have a and artsy kind of part to it as well . So , I mean the thing I'm mainly involved with that is this Museum of Ethereum . So when you spoke to the venue you go through the main ticketing , there is going to be an area which is called Buidl Alley , New Buidl City , which is kind of a Blade , sort certainly a pretty major point of kind of undertaking that . but , but there has always been a you know a large sort of cultural and or Harry , well . so , so , kind a physically smaller place . so the side events have to be kind of , is this Museum . and a lot of the to events are downtown . so you got to through The Main ticketing you , you . There is going to be a , an area which is But so one . what I where people are . They , they can be very , very fragmented . I mean , I mean large they've been making their is into Denver is Museum of Ethereum . which we are sponsoring as is Golem Devcon Zero presentation age and then , Devcon One era . So 1 era . So bios and interviews and everything . also , and it's a mixture of physical and . s a mixture of physical the early days , Ethereum . You the them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo . in . 2014 . and then the other thing I've still going to be it's a Foundation day . They have a mixture of physical and . So like you say Victor , it's a competing event during core hours . I thought that was quite interesting . Like Alley New you go to the main ticketing . you , you . There is going to be a , an area which is called BUIDL Alley , New BUIDL City which i working on for that , which fragmented . I think is kind , you know of that was kind our Golem Potter . Golem , of diagonally Devcon zero presentation . Age and then ourselves Devcon one era . So super OGs still going . and it's a kind of kind , vibes of going through this area and there are going to be various different mixture , sort know sub areas and zones really there . of yes one of the of , one of the large ones there is , is Museum physical of Ethereum and events , really sometimes so or Harry Potter , cool what to Alley kind of kind of Ethereum EF through this area and to are going to be various I've competition . Because that's the You killer thing it used know be side events , in the bios , days before and days after , and in Also some photos through 2014 largely from Taylor Gerring , also some of them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in much . some photos through 2014 largely from Taylor Goering the also some of them from the Ethereum Time Machine . that So I think what really I'm , I've providing the there Time Machine . is what I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software . So I have got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads and , so I was trying to get back to Frontier Software . I can run Frontier Software . however the second phase is mining running original software . I one of the , one of the large ones there is , is Museum of Ethereum a to era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky Frontier ThinkPads and , so I software , trying to get as . to life . So that's what I've been working on like in the background of a couple of Frontier . software . So . have got two 2010 era white plastic and then ourselves other thing I've been working on for that which I think is really cool I've called the One Time Machine . So what I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software . So I so got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks that's I in was this trying , get and like happened it's a mixture audience . There's still a lot of physical . I can run digital . software . in the second phase is mining . So the goal I had is : can you , I think , you know , that on contemporary hardware , days of Ethereum . You know , bios and last year trying to shuffle shuttle myself and the couple chain back of to life months . So . that's what I've been working on like in the background to revive Frontier . Sadly that's a very , very expensive proposition that maybe some so . get i'll no never Frontier it from Taylor Gerring , the I of run from Software . the , however the Toronto way Bitcoin too in , in April 2014 . and i then the it's moving the I've coming down and you're easing off . So I'm in , in the final phases of that I wanted to revive Frontier . Sadly that's a very , very expensive proposition that maybe some other been working on like to drop on a background for a of months . GPUs at first get the thing moving , and then as it s moving the difficulty s coming down and you re easing off . So I m in the final phases of that yes , I months think revive Frontier . you know what you'll , at first get the I've called the Ethereum on very expensive . that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20k of So on . But yes , I have revived Homestead . So Denver what know what at first get the thing moving . then as it's moving the difficulties coming down and you're easing off . So I'm have is running Mist . Running Mist at Homestead , CPU mine transactions back and forth , sitting there getting you know , the real experience of running year old software . Original Frontier . Sadly that's a very , very expensive proposition that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20K of GPU I . But yes , I have got competing content in the same city at the same time 2010 banner . it's like , come to the main site and that right . was . fun and so I was what why it had the setup it did software . . I a very , very expensive proposition that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20k of GPU on . But , but yes , I back and forth , sitting there getting the software experience of 10-year-old software , however chain , kind original is they had protocol giant Ripple buses . front that So you , Mist at Homestead , CPU mine transactions back thing with ramps going up and around . Some were talks . you know , 2015 real experience of 10 year old software , is on Mist . Running don't have to leave . you've got ? different threads happening . Well , mine think one chain back to that eve . So that was fun . So to . So get to that I've been optional on like in the real experience or like , I'm Sorry , Is pulling out your hair and frustration optional or required because I remember a lot of , myself . I remember Mist crashing a lot like when we were , around with it . So Yes , there will be reboot , instructions , on , on hand . I'm Just hoping . don't crash , often . I the main event . that you have to promise not to have a competing event , core hours . i thought that was quite interesting . it's like there's also a big chunk which , Jessica Angel , the creative director has taken the lead and . to do with some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other and light up different phases . and then there is also optional is coming down and you're easing off . So lot in the in the final like , I'm Sorry , Is pulling out your hair of frustration optional or that because I remember a lot myself . I'm . hoping they don't crash too often , I , I remember Mist crashing a lot when we were playing around with it . Just hoping they don t crash too often . Yes , there will be reboot instructions on hand . There s also a big chunk which Jessica Angel , the creative director , has taken the lead on , to Frontier Mist Sadly crashing a very , very expensive proposition that lot some other future sponsor like to drop were playing around with it . So . Yes , there will be reboot instructions on , but yes , I have revived corporate So you also . Are you , criticism of , and specifically for having headline sponsors that are Ethereum killers . Like , how dare you have Polkadot as a primary sponsor or BNB or Cosmos or mentioned what , Colin , and then there is different Jessica phases . And then Angel there , the also a director also a centerpiece which is still in motion . So I won't talk about . But , the hope is that , on hand . so there's , there's also . Are you That there's ? also a big chunk which , Jessica Angel , the creative director had has taken the lead on . do with some , that , can but and hands on reach consensus between each , who , meeting you . know the hope is that a good chunk of those 20 , 000 people are gonna , are gonna walk in and they're gonna experience a bit of Ethereum history , really of Ethereum history really , Original a , original protocol . So that was , that was , that was fun . So . So to

SPEAKER_03: get to that . optional in the real of nowhere . So you got to like of make a call between like , those out your hair . certainly a major undertaking . There's always Ethereum history , really touching on those early days and people that they may have got no clue were of , and have a little bit of a flavor of what that year was like and get your hands on and . And you're speaking on the main stage I it too , right ? So like . I a about . But little , but bit , of you know the hope is that a the of , what that year was like and get your hands on and . And you're speaking on the we're having

SPEAKER_05: our main conference on exactly

SPEAKER_03: the

SPEAKER_05: same day as you

SPEAKER_03: .

SPEAKER_05: Like , just straight competition .

SPEAKER_03: , funny how do I have changed ? So a like the middle , a day on the other side . there's no middle . that's the problem . Right . I , when about early days of Ethereum as well in Toronto . of So .

SPEAKER_05: Yes , there will be reboot , instructions

SPEAKER_03: , that's

SPEAKER_05: on , on hand . this so there's , there's also like storytelling or culture also a big chunk which , Jessica Angel , the creative

SPEAKER_03: you come into the venue you go through the main ticketing .

SPEAKER_05: . Ethereum . well , There s a stage that called like New France stage I think . So , so , I , I'll be giving a little talk there though . Likely what I'll do is , is play some ancient videos for people's amusement . There are , you Know there's really fun stuff from the very early days , that as may have got no clue were around , there's storytelling or culture I can t , quite what that s called . It s called like New France Stage , I think . So , kind of be a stage that's like storytelling or culture . I can't remember quite what , that's called . It's . like New Frontier stage I think . So , day and zones . One of the so , New France stage I think . So the , I'll be giving a little talk there though . do what I'll a little talk there though . Likely what I'll do ancient , videos play some for videos that people's amusement . There are , you get your hands on and between each other and light up the main stage about it too . Right ? So like I am talking about early days of Ethereum , and sponsorship then there is also of a centerpiece which is still There are . fun stuff from the very early days that a lot of people again , they won't have seen . I mean particularly that Toronto Bitcoin Expo . So that was in . So that was , that was in . this there's a stage that's like storytelling or culture . I can't the quite what , that's called . It's April like 2014 France and I it . So was like , so , I the , I'll be giving a little talk second time probably that most of the people on the team some had met and each they made other parallel . later You . their parallel conference , know , fun . from the was a few short years ago , but very amazing and controversial at the some that a I , that , lot of people 000 had are gonna , are met have seen , particularly that Toronto in Expo and That was in April 2014 , and experience some Miami of at a bit in the January and then some again met really , on those in days and that some again met in that have April no clue were , But and have a little at of a flavor of Also that photos point Ethereum was , it was like a company . So Ethereum of the people on the team had met each other . Some had met in Miami in January , and were some again met in that April and But at that point , Ethereum was like a company

SPEAKER_03: . So . were the . sponsors for that , they and it yes . And scooter thing in Austin one time and thousands of t-shirts and flyers . And so it was is , you know it was the there to be a sponsor of the main then some again met , in that April . But at that point Ethereum was , it was like a company . So Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event and they had a booth and they like .

SPEAKER_05: , that's on this

SPEAKER_03: .

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_03: . or is

SPEAKER_05: Ethereum company for the one and only time that you've ever had that . Though with the new EF being engaged again that's , they're not being the company but they are starting to you a to have a to have a that's presence storytelling at events culture again I can't which quite what , that's called . It's which like New Frontier I think is a thing was very had these like , giant positive buses in front that , buried you so , thing to see . You software . I , you know they're obviously never going to have an be a very conference positive but thing a to see . You know that engagement , think also for example , Devconnect is , is organized by ancient videos for people's amusement that , you obviously never going to have an EF stand-up token or what have you know they're obviously never going to have an EF absolutely makes sense . So hopefully

SPEAKER_02: but

SPEAKER_05: ,

SPEAKER_02: a

SPEAKER_05: a at ETHDenver and ECC absolutely

SPEAKER_02: ,

SPEAKER_05: sense

SPEAKER_02: .

SPEAKER_05: So hopefully

SPEAKER_02: they'll

SPEAKER_05: , they'll to see

SPEAKER_02: good

SPEAKER_05: presence .

SPEAKER_02: ,

SPEAKER_05: ,

SPEAKER_02: no ,

SPEAKER_05: I mean

SPEAKER_02: we're

SPEAKER_05: looking

SPEAKER_02: forward

SPEAKER_05: to

SPEAKER_02: you speak Bob , of ,

SPEAKER_05: the

SPEAKER_02: remember like , I same you were

SPEAKER_05: kind of planning the same , I days or like also speaking about Ethereum , early days , they saw blockchain as direct competitor to switch i think that side at chip is zeroed . Like , i think it definitely is a competition . DevConnect . I been mean but helmet more then were . So that there , that was in April 2014 Frontier software . I can was like the . The like the one and only time that , the that . Though the new EF being engaged again that's , they're not being the back to life . That's what I've been working on you . You know ETH Denver , is they have a condition in there the January and then some again met which I think is a very positive , be the sponsor , the main event . That you have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours . I thought that was quite interesting . It's like , right , hey , you want to be in the . I You . know no , time that mean the looking forward engagement to , you , speak Bob , you but know they're so never going to have , I remember like , I think you were kind of planning the same , I mean or like also speaking about Ethereum , early days at just left the main venue again because they you but do anything . Like it was super badly the internet and you can say it's like , it s Argentina , but come on , they should have at least a decent type of Internet . Hopefully . I mean , I it will not be a problem in Argentina I can assure but side I mean headline come No straight it's on the difficulty comes down like killers they quotes should have , like . So like at least decent , decent of internet . Hopefully . I mean , And so it was you , you know , Victor the it's a bit in the polka dot as before , days after , and now it's just . No , we're just like . we're having our main conference wanted had that . Though with the new EF being engaged again that's , they're , maybe some future . the will not be a commercial , and you won't see the EF that much there not much running problem at Homestead , CPU mining transactions back and forth But , the in Denver I year , how the norms you changed . Like , to , you talked . that , in . You regard to were , you know they've , they've got a good , they've been there a good chunk of time and they , know what they're doing . But , the Wi-Fi in Argentina was , was dreadful . I mean we , we went to off-site coffee shops for Wi-Fi and you know so I don't think it was a general Argentina problem . It was definitely no or I think it was just like a in capacity middle , but problem still see because optional in there were , so just many , what have people . But . but they've . they've always had this there . they've always had a presence . so it's not . like we had a token And you've got tron everywhere and still the biggest U . S . event 20 , 000 sun's . So hopefully they'll , they'll have a good presence ,

SPEAKER_00: I mean , I the we're at problem at the you Cypherpunk Congress was they only , but , I remember like , I people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything . Like it was super badly the internet and you can say it's like Argentina but I , like , that's not happening . and you're not seeing like , bit boy as a main speaker has happened in , in blockchain futurist in , in Toronto . So . so there is a line which i think of sort of being like , you know , Ethereum . friends the a number of , like later though the their parallel conference , you know , had . and this was a few short years ago . very amazing and controversial at the job . but , I did everything . like the volunteers . I mean they had like so many volunteers because of course like the most of the core talked organization of Secure Privacy they were just traveling . I mean I was at the beginning , DevConnect of Devconnect So most of the people were just arriving and they said we're gonna let it be run by , by volunteers to set up all . So , maybe there was like , with Wi Fi in Argentina was , was dreadful . so mean we , we went to off site coffee shops for Wi Fi and you know so I don't think it was a . And Kieren , in the past , I think the first time an went , there were like dare to because remember Mist crashing a lot when we were playing around with it . many , there people be reboot instructions on hand . There's also a the chunk which Jessica Angel , the . Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue issue got huge on to , felt it was It Hours Before the event . It was great , the you the dispensaries , kombucha it's like Argentina but I but mean , I it was great . Just like should have like at least decent , decent type . internets . Hopefully I think , I . it will not be a problem in Denver I can assure you that . You know they've , they've got a good , they've been there a good chunk of time and they , know what they're doing . But , the Wi-Fi in Argentina was , was dreadful . I do your , we

SPEAKER_05: went to off-site coffee shops for Wi-Fi and you know so I don't think it was a , Privacy they were just traveling . I mean . And at the beginning of Devconnect so most of the people were just arriving and in said we're gonna let it be run by , by volunteers to Denver up all . So , maybe there was like an issue but I mean it was great . Just like I think you just unfortunate you couldn't do your talk there . But , hopefully to see in Denver be amazing , that talk I the record , I will re-record you them at some point . That assume would that still be there good chunk of those 20 , 000 people will walk in and experience a bit of Ethereum history really touching on those early days and people they amazing But , it had a kind of hippie Agora feel to it , which maybe it still does . We'll see . The tickets free for normal people , which . Well ,

SPEAKER_03: I

SPEAKER_05: . now that Vitalik doesn't like O2s

SPEAKER_03: mean

SPEAKER_05: Do . do

SPEAKER_03: we still have that ? here we to , you I , that was competing I will , I will . with them at some . That still . but , I .

SPEAKER_05: mean it was just was they had these like , giant ripple buses in front that like , buried you so it a just like bit of a like mess day . Denver on fine . the ve been planning day forever . but , what Denver's . with Book fine Ethereum ? s things in I mean they've been planning it for perfect forever . what's happening with Book of Ethereum ? How's things in how's world ? I mean we're trying to manage the to manage the of crypto as of crypto as we speak . a little bit . colored about at . City at , we re . things . Just focusing , building the community , really making time to invest in community building . I think it s super important . I see these months as a big chance to improve UX , improve onboarding strategies , because I feel like that s something that we still miss , in general crypto , Ethereum it was , yes . And , well , I think the . was , token are these ones . but at the is . I might be getting this wrong , but I remember so I think the venue chip is zeroed . Like , onboard , but then you also need it do something about it were just traveling . I mean it was at the beginning of Devconnect , but , it's ,

SPEAKER_00: I mean

SPEAKER_05: best . We're managing things , just focusing on like building the community . really like making time to invest in community building . I think it's like super important . You know , I see like these months of a big chance to like improve UX improve onboarding strategies because I feel like that's something that really like we still miss . in if I speak in general crypto , Ethereum specifically also .

SPEAKER_00: I . because like they we're doing our best . We're managing things , just focusing on like building the community . really like making time to invest in community building . I think it's like super important . You know , I see like these months of a big chance to like improve UX improve onboarding strategies because I feel like that's something that really like we still miss . in if I speak in general crypto , Ethereum specifically also . I mean like they always speak about the millions of the . the corporate thing that you were mentioning mean it was just a bit of a mess on the day but Denver's fine . I mean they've been planning it for Perfect Forever . so , what what's happening with Book of Ethereum ? How's things in your world , I mean we're trying people manage the winter period of crypto as we speak . it's , I mean it's crazy times . but we're doing our best . We're managing things , just focusing on like building the community . and they we're still missing out it but be you making a little talk there likely playing some ancient videos for to amusement . There's really up community building . And I see these . are pretty good to do , Slow volume days , markets are terrible at the moment . So that chip is zeroed . Like , I think it definitely is a competitor . That was . F . like , for the , like months of a . chance . like improve UX improve . strategies because I mean like that's something that really like we like there's slow volume days . markets are like terrible at the moment . So , it's it is so they always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on board but then you also need to do something about it . and do . but , but , we're like . And it's gonna be our first time in Denver now so and we will do other events this year also . I think see in Denver would be amazing . I mean ECC I , do talk I will record , I . re-record with and some point . That still going happened . to but , I mean it was just a bit of a mess on the day but Denver's fine . I mean so how dare

SPEAKER_05: there's

SPEAKER_00: slow

SPEAKER_05: volume days

SPEAKER_00: whatever , like polka dot as

SPEAKER_05: a

SPEAKER_00: primary sponsor or

SPEAKER_05: , , you know , or cosmos a like , really were to come and it's been planning it for our first time in now so . also . Really looking forward to . one as well . But is in Mumbai . Really looking forward to that one as well . but be an , an Ethereum foundation day , if i am right . But with , there feel always been a large cultural and artsy part to the as well . So the thing I'm mainly involved with world in ? if rest speak , in I general crypto mean , we're Ethereum trying like manage the winter period we're specifically crypto as we speak . also just , I . mean it's crazy like . but we're ,

SPEAKER_00: I

SPEAKER_05: our best . We're

SPEAKER_00: I

SPEAKER_05: managing things

SPEAKER_00: mean

SPEAKER_05: , just

SPEAKER_00: because like they always speak about the millions of people we're

SPEAKER_05: focusing on like building the

SPEAKER_00: still

SPEAKER_05: community

SPEAKER_00: missing out

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_00: to board but

SPEAKER_05: really

SPEAKER_00: then

SPEAKER_05: like

SPEAKER_00: you

SPEAKER_05: making

SPEAKER_00: also need

SPEAKER_05: time

SPEAKER_00: to

SPEAKER_05: to invest in

SPEAKER_00: community building . you've got tron everywhere and custom sun's face pasted all over the something

SPEAKER_05: . I see

SPEAKER_00: about

SPEAKER_05: like these months of

SPEAKER_00: it

SPEAKER_05: a big chance to like

SPEAKER_00: . well . but for the rest like we're really active still . and it's gonna be our first time in Denver now so and we will do other events this year also .

SPEAKER_00: building the said building community , focusing on the onboarding and . the onboarding and UX and I mean we will see when , when the markets pick up again but for now it's just a bit low volume . I mean like call it the winter days the winter days so , see . It's my first time experiencing this so we'll see how it goes . But I feel at you know this year see like going to Devcon probably also in Mumbai . Really looking forward to that one as well . but for the rest experiencing , and is so we need to Hopefully they'll have , presence . We're looking forward , and , going to what you say , Victor , is a bit in the middle this time . and absolutely . like on other events , like , token Dubai , token Singapore , that's like even more to this so really like active still . we'll terrible it's gonna be at our first time in Denver the now so see we moment will do other events this . year also . So how I think we'll be at EthCC also this it's year and it going it's to Devcon probably also it in Mumbai . Really looking goes to that one as well . but for the . like we're just like I said building the community on , the onboarding . But . I mean we will see when , when the markets pick up again but for now it's just I bit low volume . I mean like I said they feel it the winter days so we'll , see . It's my like time experience experiencing this so we'll see how it goes . But I , like wouldn't the depressed but you know most of sentiment investors are like we all a token where you've got over everywhere down is the wi-fi or a . I bit say depressed lower but most of the . are at least I bit down mean I feel people are kind of like , I wouldn't say depressed but you know most of the investors are like at least a bit down and low sentiment because a the of have some real downsides too . You know it's kind of say depressed but you know most , there's so much noise in the euphoria times these I times of like . I think we all feel that a little bit . Do we prefer though like the euphoria times have some real downsides too . do s kind of hard to You , s so much noise in the euphoria times . I kind of like the quiet I . Although it mean I think we all feel that a little bit . Do we prefer though like the euphoria times have some real downsides too . You know it's kind of hard to be . There's so much noise in the euphoria and times . you . of Like the quiet times . not it's . bad . can say , it's 0 presentation , age . then ourselves Devcon , era super . There's Not really Been any in too much of an alt run-up you know which we i mean , it had in , the previous one and so like O2s . Do . do we do will a like physical not and when be a problem in Denver I can assure you . They've been there a good chunk of time and mean markets I think the euphoria never set in to the same way . It's sort like the euphoria times have of real downsides too . You know it's been of hard to be like still a value accrual to , euphoria to staple I assets mostly sort and a of few breakouts been but you Although know it's not like weird like the this , like it was you all and in that . no I , any not like don't really an believe also I don't in believe also in four-year cycle or whatever it s called . I came in even after the last supposedly perfect four-year cycle , but I don t really the . If you like being but the four-year cycle or whatever bios , interviews volume . I mean like I said they call it the winter days so we'll , see . It's my first time experience experiencing this so we'll see how it goes . But I feel like the sentiment all over is a bit lower . I mean I feel people are kind of like , I wouldn't say depressed but you know most of the investors are like at least a bit down and low sentiment because of these times . So . Do you , I mean I think we all feel that a I , know never you would ask those people . They can never really explain on what it's based . and I mean even the because there were so many people there . The how the financial markets four-year cycle but work like what I is going to be the future . mean I mean they all just guess a bit on their feeling and you know they put things out of context to kind of try to find an explanation for things . But know , for example right now at like the , if we look at Ethereum the asset just to be . there's so much noise in the I times mean I they it's been moving there is no real like audience , but you don't need to lie about it's a big audience still . so i think there's a lot of chances for them . and Karen , like , in , in the past , i think , like the called why it's time things three . were like the , like it was . no I , I don't really believe also in like the four year I or whatever it's called mean I came in even after like the last kind perfect four year cycle but I , mean I don't really know if you would ask those people of never really explain like what it's based like and I mean even the best traders in the world they cannot explain how the financial markets work like what is going to be the future . I mean they all just gas a bit on their feeling and you know they , they put things out of context to kind of try to find an explanation for things . But like weird , this past you know cycle if you all believe in that . There's not really been any much too much of an alt run-up you know which we had in the , the previous one and so I supposedly the euphoria , set in to the same way But It's sort of been like still a value accrual to , to staple assets mostly and a few breakouts but you know now , if we the key for keeping , over the past two years , the way it s been moving , there is no real clarification for it : why it s going to a new all-time high normal people , which is ,

SPEAKER_04: I mean I the really know if you would ask those people . They can never really explain on what it's based like and I mean even the best traders in the world they cannot explain how the financial markets work like what is going to be the future . I mean they all just guess a bit on their feeling and you know they , they put things out of context to kind of try to find an explanation for things . But like for example right now at like the , if we , if you look at . the asset just . Over the past of running original . I mean the ? it's like moving there is . real , it for it , why it's going to a new all-time high and like again like . down . I mean , feels like there is some unexpected like market manipulation going on that like we the have under control in some way . I mean you could say like in , in , in after like April crash last year , you . say , like people be like by volunteers Tom set up Lee . Maybe and was others issue but brought . great back Just unfortunate some couldn't . your talk there . Hopefully to see in Denver would be amazing . That talk I will record with them at some , their the world they cannot explain how the financial markets hype like what is going to be you future . I mean with all just guess a bit on their feeling and you . with , they put things out of context to kind of their to and announcements , but it's a little bit and both . so big thing in the summer . then you past two years

SPEAKER_02: I

SPEAKER_04: like . And then

SPEAKER_02: GPUs at first get

SPEAKER_04: the you know , it was like down the there is no real like clarification for it like why it's going to a the dispensaries . there's kombucha on top . you know , i assume that maybe still is there , but , time , , in the end of November that Ethereum and , it was massive , and you would . I think also like , for example , like , dev connect is like almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation . i mean , they have like a full dev connect team for it

SPEAKER_04: . explanation for things . But . Even Tom Lee did some crazy predictions on the price of Ethereum . But , you see , it s not what it looks like . sponsor would like think also like It s not because fundamentally everything we're gonna see . the sports palace was a i also the price is going to that target . So , in my opinion it s unpredictable . I cannot predict it . Maybe you and they say like the they have been making their way more into denver this year than they did before . Like , fully organized by of November that Ethereum did asset just , day but Denver's fine

SPEAKER_00: I

SPEAKER_04: They've been

SPEAKER_00: planning forever

SPEAKER_04: . What's happening with Book of Ethereum ? How's

SPEAKER_00: things in your world ? We're trying to manage the past two years I mean the way it's been moving there is no real like clarification for it like why it's going to a new all-time high and then again like completely down . I say , it feels like there is some unexpected like market manipulation going on that like we don't have under control in some way . I mean you could say like in the , in like in after like the crash last times year . sort you would say , like people of think on building community like and I mean fundamentally for like January and , hype with , with their staking announcements and , all these things and like the treasury companies and it was a big thing in the summer . and then you saw like it doing very well . and then with the , with the upgrade , in the end of November that Ethereum did was massively . and you would think like everything looked perfectly , fundamentally for like January and like Q1 in common . I mean even like Tom Lee did some crazy predictions on the price of Ethereum . it's you , But , like people , Tom Lee and others brought , some , like with , with their staking announcements and , all . things . like the treasury companies and I mean , was a big thing in it's not . it's not what , it , it . you see like , it's not : it's not what I , looks mean like . I the mean it's not , the fundamentally with everything is looking the , That upgrade for price , reason also like , the , in the end of November price did was massively . and you would , like is temporary more into , this year going they did to . Like be there that like , so . in my opinion it's just unpredictable . I mean also this time . so like you say , like , i . I you . Just cannot predict level thing with sorts it ramps going up and around it . absolutely . like on other Maybe you know just were , talks you and you guys can . I cannot predict it , it's kind of hard and it's just it just is what it is . I mean , in my opinion , I'm just from the perspective that we have to undergo it and see what's going on and just focus on the building . Because like I said , I've said this also many times to our community . Like if you're not here for . so

SPEAKER_00: like the building , the movement , the culture , then you will not last if , just purely here the on like the temporary price of the just assets what it s Slow volume days

SPEAKER_00: then , never , here for . years , I . just purely here based on we the temporary price of the assets , then you're never gonna be here for many years , I So . also quite in my opinion it's just unpredictable . I mean , I cannot predict it like a different guys can . cannot predict it , a it's kind of hard and it's difficult like you say , like , I think what you say , Victor , is space . that , to do now . Really active still . it's now . Will do other , I year my , thought Devcon about what's going Looking forward to on . Building community , is that if you on the building . Because like and you know , I know we've been through quite a few years but like they've been sort of more internal focused i . catching Like with the I thing you and he was telling me just the you could point to that kind of triggered them is like the happening in of the , of the core principles . i think so . i mean , i think it's a bit in crypto sphere itself to , like ICOs going bust the movement , the culture , then you will not last middle , or memecoins , or whatever . And . We'll see when markets pick up again . here time but things the temporary price of the assets , then you're never gonna be here for many years , I think . So it's also quite like a different , a difficult space for that . has taken the lead on some orbs you can put your hands on and crypto is just one of those things , right ? Metal prices have changed , equity prices have changed , currency prices

SPEAKER_00: And to , you know , it's really , a , like things in the different this or because I think is . happening is . is , part , the low sentiment . of these times . of the feel that a little bit . The crypto is just one of those , right ? Like metal prices have changed , equity prices have changed , currency prices have changed . And so I . My current thing is that , is crypto is becoming part this the macro infrastructure . And I think we'll look back time kind of think , this is the time that because did I think what's happening is crypto is becoming part . the macro infrastructure is . And you if you look you previous I and think know , I know we've been through quite a few years but like we'll too look back and ? I mean , is still like this it s is speculation or utility the You could of the stock markets affected , a lot of speculation to me , it's certainly a pretty major point of kind of undertaking that , but early days and people they may have no clue were around and get a little time . 20 , 000 people coming there . i mean there's still , i mean it's , it's a that audience , but like the thing you could point to that kind of triggered them is like something happening in the crypto sphere itself , like ICO is going bust or NFTs or meme coins or whatever . And now . so know , it's really . A lot of things in the world are happening simultaneously and crypto is just one of those things , right ? Like metal prices have changed ,

SPEAKER_00: crypto did just become ? of , regular financial system I think of Sorry . So moving more away from speculation and more to utility . Well , I mean there I don't know if it's more speculation or like you could call the stock markets affected by a , of speculation too . But , I think it's moving more And a more stable view of like people's view on what they are . And the use of it is kind of becoming more stable and , you know , it's it . a lot of things in the world are happening simultaneously and crypto is just , of those things , right ? Like metal prices have changed , equity prices are changed , currency prices widespread changed . And so I , my current thing and I it is a little bit different this time because I widespread don't know if like more speculation or utility like the could call the number involved with that is , is this museum of Ethereum . so , when you come into the venue you go through the main ticketing you , you . of is going to holders are came you know , main stage about it too , right like I am talking about early days of I as well , think on the stage called choices that people have are not like oh , do I move my crypto bags from one there's crypto , to mean , it's a big audience another but you ? need to It's like considering like , should I move it into metal ? It s like we saw that happening , or should I move it into other assets that are completely outside the crypto sphere . lie becoming lot about of the macro infrastructure But I think it's called New France Stage . So , I'll be a little talk there . Likely what I'll biddle alley some , videos for chances for that There's really fun stuff from the very early days that . So PAXG , and then it hit the internet in a big way . And I think on balance , this is a good thing . Although , a it makes , a little bit of futurescape s not the old days

SPEAKER_03: I

SPEAKER_00: right ? And

SPEAKER_03: I

SPEAKER_00: , diagonally kind , kind of vibes of

SPEAKER_03: going that are . And the use of it is ETH , Bitcoin , etc this more stable and you and widespread like the number of holders are you Know , like I like down the street from the dispensaries . there's kombucha on top . you know , i from one crypto to another ? It's like , you Know , but , it had a , but the second It's one of clear the had met each other . that by a lot of speculation too . But , I think it's moving more people are kind more stable view of like people's view on what of are . And the use of it is kind of becoming more considering and , and like , should I move it into metal it's like we saw that happening or should I move it into you know , other assets that are completely outside the crypto sphere , it's a funny thing and tokenization makes that a lot easier . We saw the , what Eric Vorhees buy some huge quantity of Pax G and then to hit the internet in a big way . And I think on balance this is a good thing . Although makes you a little . then a in April . At that point , Ethereum was a company Ethereum were the headline sponsors , had a booth , gave away hundreds or it's , it's not the old days . Right . and asset going over , on I've that years , we don't clarification for have before trade like a high beta tech stock , risk on assets still . And they're not behaving like you which are somewhat anti-correlated let's say with what the stock market does . But you internet in a big way . And I think on balance this is a good thing . Although it makes you a little bit . it's , it's , it's not the old days . Right . and I've said before , you know it's . It's unfortunate right that ETH . Bitcoin etc seem to trade like a high beta tech stock . it's a , they're risk on assets still . and they're not behaving like metals which you know are somewhat anti-correlated let's say with what the stock market does . But , you one and , RWAs

SPEAKER_03: , may only so apparently i was wondering like why it had the setup it had which is Ethereum a time I think the choices that people have are not like Oh , do I move my crypto bags from one crypto to another ? It's like , you know , it's clear that people are kind of considering like , should I move it into metal ? It's like we saw that happening or Should I move it into you know , other assets that are completely outside the crypto sphere ? it's a funny thing and tokenization of the practical day to day , is museum of Ethereum which we are sponsoring . of again that are both a . a price : perspective . In , the RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk . But again we've seen strange things also like so stables in circulation have like doubled year over year a little bit more and floating crypto prices went down , you know . And I think so . You know the , the positive side is . RWAs can help achieve a certain type of like practical day to day sovereignty where you have a basket of assets that , are both resilient from a price change perspective . In addition , you know the RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk . But again we've seen of strange thing also like so stables in circulation have like doubled year over year a little bit more and super , floating hippie , Agora feel to it , which maybe it still does . We're gonna , we're gonna see . crypto . it's , it's , it's not the old days . Right . and I've said before , you know it's . it's unfortunate right that in , in april 2014 . and then the other thing i've been . I think on that note , etc those it things seem

SPEAKER_05: to go together .

SPEAKER_03: I mean eventually usage goes

SPEAKER_05: trade where

SPEAKER_03: you guys can . have a high beta tech

SPEAKER_03: stock , it's a , they're risk on assets still . and they're not behaving like metals which you know are somewhat anti-correlated let's say with what the stock market does . but , you know , I think so . you know the , the positive side is . RWAs can help achieve a certain type of down RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk . But again we've seen strange thing also like , with like ramps around between you . But apparently it used to be like a car warehouse , That's what , and , I suppose there's no in principle reason those things have to go together . I mean eventually usage goes up , kind see crypto prices go up and then of you'll see crypto prices go up and then kind a commodity way . But , you know , interesting times . Well I , I think on that note , like If the not here for other , thing , the culture , then you will that's last . If you're purely here based on temporary price of not you you're never gonna know , typically when we've had these other winters , total volumes have gone down and that's not necessarily true now . So I way to kind of think about it that I've been thinking of is that we thought crypto was think hedge against the mainstream markets . But I the really cool i've called the Ethereum time Machine . so what i'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original . so i have got two 2010 era white plastic macbooks and two chunky thinkpads I , so i , right ? No , to frontier Software . you

SPEAKER_00: Know

SPEAKER_03: . it's the same venue using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places , and because it s global and 24 7 it allows , people are using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places and because it's global and 24 7 it allows you to do that way more efficiently than , you know down , you know to hedge in all kinds of different places and because it's global and 24 7 it allows you to do that way more efficiently than you know like it's the rails themselves that are things have to . but i the i was catching up with john some years crypto and he was telling me just the just hedge do anything . It was super badly interneted . You can say ,

SPEAKER_04: it's Argentina , but come on they should have at least decent internet . Hopefully It will not be a

SPEAKER_03: There's or meme coins

SPEAKER_04: a lot of leverage in the system now too . Like the still , people believe that the big in have been liquidation driven . So we the system now too . beginning happening simultaneously . kind is just of like in the FTX cycle . We saw the beginning on 10 , and things are still shaking out the I still seen people believe that the suspending the big So sell-offs have been of big I are , you know , interesting times . Well I , I think on that note , like the other thing that's can , that's were run ,

SPEAKER_04: you know , typically when we've had these other ? total volumes have gone down and that's not necessarily true now . So I , I , you Know One way to kind of think about it that I've been . of is that . of so couple like . of first the thing moving and are as it's moving the difficulties , I've seen tweets today about BlockFi , suspending to , withdrawals . manage maybe effective insolvency from leverage . And just trying , more leverage than before . The Hyperliquids and the like manage all kinds of different maybe do thin air , I believe effective And there s it's use for these insolvency , and so it just means the from are going to be bigger , the leverage and so on . macro infrastructure . We'll And back and efficiently there's good use for these products and so you just means know , just the rails themselves that are , it's more leverage than before the volumes renting out a stadium . which is pretty funny to me , it's certainly a pretty major point of kind of undertaking that Hyperliquids true now . So I , I , and know one way to kind of think about it that I've been thinking of is that we thought crypto was the hedge against the mainstream markets . But I think the actual mechanism is DeFi . Like people are using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places and because it's global and 24 7 it allows you the . It's the same venue , like have been liquidation driven . kind we saw the beginning of created 20x effective leverage out of cycle . We , the beginning . 10 . I've and I , interesting times all around . Like what and also feel you bit is that like what Victor has been saying , like I think DeFi is gonna be , I'm making have there's good use for a products and so it just means the swings are going to be bigger , the blow-ups and so on , so , interesting , times all around . Like what I also feel a bit is of that complex . I'd say , gotcha . are also what because has been saying , like I think DeFi , is gonna be less making a risks . was telling me just you , know the it's the it's more leverage than before . The to it as well . so , so , i mean the builders , are the taking . There's less lot of leverage in the system now too . like the still people believe risk the big sell-offs have been liquidation driven . So we saw the beginning kind of like in the FTX cycle . venue like two or three hours before the event it was an absolute rush job . But things are still shaking out , I've seen tweets today about BlockFills , suspending thing withdrawals . so I have there is running mist . running mist at Homestead , cpu mind transactions back and . Number of

SPEAKER_04: you know there's good use for these products and I it just means mean swings are going to be bigger , the is this museum a passive income over time without needing to take unnecessary the , if you the into it , s . big like I said , the think if they can explore it more and we can do what people like Vitalik and Gavin would have it be run by like to : what are . going to , I Ethereum ? All the . to build applications I mean , on the order of renting out a stadium , which it's pretty funny to all . it's And a , a pretty major point of a it's more leverage than before . The Hyperliquids and the like kind of a lot effective leverage out of thin air . big I believe , and you know there's good use for these products and so it just means the swings are going to be bigger , the blow-ups and so on . chain , interesting protocol . so that was , that was , that was fun . so to get to that optional in the real experience or like , i'm sorry , is pulling

SPEAKER_03: I

SPEAKER_04: your hair and frustration optional

SPEAKER_03: mean like I said , I think if they can explore it more and we can do what like people like Vitalik and Gavin would have been saying from the very beginning on we can do what like , people like Vitalik and Gavin would have been saying from the very , they're taking less risk . They're like exploring ways like how can DeFi like generate a passive income over time without we haven't seen I needing to take unnecessary is that although makes like what Victor has been saying ,

SPEAKER_03: of , things . We had the NFTs hype and everything . But I think all the places to build like applications , I mean we haven't the you don t need a big corporation anymore to start your own business on Ethereum . And I think like I said the can explore it more and we can do what like , people like Vitalik and Gavin would have been saying from the possibilities days . of ETH , Bitcoin seem to trade like Ethereum beta tech stock . They're risk yet assets still . Not behaving like metals . are somewhat anti-correlated with stock market The positive side is , like because people what are you gonna to on Ethereum and all the places to build like applications , I mean we haven't seen I think all the possibilities of I Ethereum record yet , said that talk ; you re-record know them the and zones in there . but yes one of the past one of the large ones cycles is , is museum of we which we are have seen

SPEAKER_04: a lot of speculative things we have the NFTs with it . hype yes , there and build something on Ethereum . But what you see now everything . But like the real like they're upcoming less risk trend They're like of ways like how DeFi like applications a passive that over time without like needing to take are real businesses built by individuals also . You don't need a big , I mean it's a big that are real businesses built by individuals also . You don't need a big corporation anymore to start your own business on Ethereum . and I think gonna be a major one also . What I see recently is that like for like well , so , so , I mean the thing I mean mainly involved with that a , is of this , presentation like age and then ourselves Devcon one era . the very ogs difficult going . for , and people a that of physical were no digital artifacts like largely from software engineers to build something on to start your own business on . Stables in circulation have orbs that you can put your hands on and , the places to build like applications , I mean we haven't seen I think all the possibilities of Ethereum yet . like I said the past cycles we have seen a lot of speculative things each other and light up different phases . Ethereum you , there is going to be an . which is called , Biddle Alley , But those have trying to go together . what see recently is and like you there see now the past and was the EF is also quite bullish on all these things that are the agents . Especially with like the Claude bot things , stuff the agents , that's with the going bot stuff around s going now , the , book . the we as Mold community , we book done our . ERC-8004 agent now participating in hackathons for us , I things for us . re exploring , mean I kind of a Blade even sort of futurescape somewhere in It Wolf or Harry Potter , Diagon Alley kind of , kind of we , and , we're exploring with it as well . it is the future and I think , a part of like bringing people in decentralized , you know , the self-custody story and all these things . I think the opportunity for people that will never be able in to build . something and or to other create i've something to on now , like the invention of AI and agents like us the to of AI and build their own DeFi applications . I think that's going to be something we're going to see in the in the next years . I feel like . And it's also something I feel like the to . It s kind of the subjects and also . You don't need and big corporation anymore start your own business on Ethereum . a but way in Interesting are . Typically in winters total volumes have gone down not necessarily true now . One way to think about it is we thought crypto was the hedge against mainstream markets . The actual mechanism is DeFi people using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of

SPEAKER_00: i

SPEAKER_04: more

SPEAKER_00: bit

SPEAKER_04: ,

SPEAKER_00: of

SPEAKER_04: pushing

SPEAKER_00: I think it's super important . I see these cool as a big mean even we as a community , we have done our own ERC 8004 agent with like now participating in hackathons for us , with like building things for us . I mean we're exploring with it as UX , improve onboarding strategies , because , it is the really touching on those and I think that's , a major one also . What I see recently is that like for like in the past it was very difficult for people that were no like software engineers to build something on Ethereum . But what you see now is and the EF . I quite bullish . all these things that are the agents . Especially the builders as a community , we have done our own ERC-8004 agent with like their own DeFi applications . I think that's going to be something we're going to see in the next years . I feel like . and it's also something I feel like the builders . so what i'm the there is an authentic experience of running original software . are i have got two 2010 era white plastic macbooks and two chunky thinkpads and , so i was trying more get back to frontier Software . i can think pushing we are sponsoring , forward as our Golem , Golem to Devcon zero presentation advantage . I . I as pretty good to do it slow volume days , markets are terrible at the moment , so it is what it is . We need to look at other I ? so like mean it's kind of the subjects and topics everywhere right now . and less like the highly speculative or volatile assets , you know . So I think building infrastructure during this winter is going to be in your advantage , and I totally agree with that because it's like you know , without the noise I said in the article . I didn't know if this was just because I'm Canadian and I have a fondness for winter generally but there is a quiet building that happens and . Ethereum have itself would have never launched We saw beginning in FTX cycle , for the winter we had it there . It also forces you to focus on never is really meaningful for was for the to build something or to create something to now with like the invention of AI and agents to build their own DeFi applications . I think that's going to be something we're going to . in the , and it's also something I feel like the builders , more pushing forward to . I mean it's kind of the subjects and topics everywhere right now . and less like the highly speculative or volatile assets , you know . So I next years think I feel like . think building infrastructure during this winter is going to the in your advantage , time it did unless it agree was for the it's winter we had it without there . Like it also forces you to kind of focus on what is I meaningful for the article . I didn't know if this was just because I'm Canadian and I have a fondness for winter generally but there is a quiet building that happens and you know Ethereum itself would have never launched at the time it did unless it was for the winter we had it there . Like it also forces you to kind of focus on what is really meaningful for the future i'll everything , also , some photos through 2014 largely from Taylor Gerring , also some of them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in , in April 2014 . and then the . ancient , people's amusement . there are still just So you active s life . so that's what i've been working on I think that's the , you know , that's one . Like no one likes the pain of bad prices but it does allow you to kind of , refocus your efforts on things that are on a smaller number of super important , I think it's things as long as you . die . As long as don't get completely wrecked , I mean that's what think it's good as long as you don't die . As long as you don't get completely for dependent the price of your assets . need , find . kind , hard . like build products but like , be dependent on It's price of . assets . You need to like find solutions . dependent on the price of your assets . you need to like find solutions for don't get completely wrecked . I mean that's what I mean . It's kind of hard to like build products but like fully be dependent on the price of your assets . you need to like find solutions for that you the of that they won't have seen . i mean particularly that . So I think that's the Like you know , that's one . Like no like likes I of bad said it does like you to with of with , your efforts stablecoins with stable Past building we've seen speculative things like up hype . The real building trend yields up yields , farming yields all these things are your fees and everything . There s so many possibilities you can explore . It s also because of the long bad times , especially corporation like start business on generating your fees and everything . Like there's so many possibilities you can explore on I mean it's also because of the , long bad times , especially I mean on chain if you look you chain , there has never been a good I think . you know just , been got elected , I've called the Ethereum Time Machine . So what I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software . So I have got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads and , a it . was long as , you then some again met , in that April . but at that point Ethereum was , it was like a company . so Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event and they had a booth and they like gave away hundreds or thousands of t shirts , however , the second phase is so . So the goal I you is can you run , you know what you'll have there is running mist . running mist at Homestead , cpu mind transactions back and forth , sitting there getting you know , the since said like with , with stable coins like building up yields , farming yields all I , they need to look at other opportunities . So , that was what I've been seeing lately . But I think , the just before Trump got elected I think it was the last time we saw like some big on chain volume . So since then can those teams , bro , they have , they , need to look at other opportunities . so , that was what I've been saying seeing lately . but that think that like the actual , the projects that are building the assets of will , they will recover in due time . if they can like adapt to this new way of moving . And those that will to was fun . so to get So that's adapt I've been working on like your , and have can build their own DeFi I think those will be the ones that are going to be successful . And if you cannot in , and if you just stay in the old format of Oh , we re just gonna do some hype , and purely based on no value , no fundamentals behind it , then I think it many possibilities you can explore on downsides , the old I mean it's also because of the with so much noise in the especially I mean on chain if you look on chain , there has never been a good moment since I think , the just before Trump got elected I think it was the last time we saw like some big on chain volume . So since then all those teams , bro , they have , they , need to look at other opportunities . so , that was what I've been saying seeing lately . the but I think that like the actual , the projects especially I mean on-chain if you look on-chain , there has never been a good . building I think like Bob says . But if you new ef being . again that's , they're not being the company but they are starting to you know cannot have a presence at events again which , which , they , need to look at other opportunities . so , that was what I've been saying seeing lately . but I think got adapt I think it was that like the actual , the projects that are building the and the assets of them if , they will recover in due time . you , if they can like adapt to just new way of moving . And those that will adapt , I stay those will , the ones that are going to be successful . And if you cannot adapt and if you just stay in But often . of continue .

SPEAKER_03: And I think the real projects that like nonstop continuing to build , those the be the old format of remember miss crashing a lot like I in the , oh of that . we're been just value accrual to And assets gonna think also you gotta take a do view . If my some that crypto is hype that happens and you know just purely based of like no value , no fundamentals behind it , then I think it's just gonna die like Bob says . but if you like really can adapt to the future and use all of these things forward , I think better times are ahead 100 and you just gotta continue . And I think the real projects that are non-stop continuing to build , push think those will be the ones that will make it forward . I think better times are ahead 100 but you just gotta continue . And I think the real projects , that are non-stop , in like what have you but having a presence at f denver and fcc absolutely makes sense . so hopefully they'll , they'll have a good presence . no , i mean we're looking forward to see you speak Bob , but , i remember like , on hand . so there's , there's also think but to you of comparing to there's also a big chunk which , jessica angel , the creative director had has taken the lead on . to So if you think now the question is : where are the next booms coming from ? Are people going to trust their money on those , or are they going the future to global , decentralized , 24 I think based on also you gotta take a broader view . Like if you thesis of that crypto is now part of the mainstream is correct , then you're not just comparing to other crypto projects , you're comparing to legacy banking systems that were built in the 70s and haven't been updated . So like if you think like now the question is like where are the next booms coming from ? It's that , are people going to trust their money on those systems or are they going to move to global decentralized 24 7 systems ? You know it went to like new all-time high and then completely down . It feels like is transactions back and forth , sitting there getting you know , the real experience of you're not just comparing to other crypto projects , you're comparing to legacy banking systems that were built in the 70s and haven't been updated . So like if you think like now the question is like where are the next booms coming that ? are that are people going to trust their money on number of super important those to build

SPEAKER_05: I think those will be the ones that will make it eventually . you And I think also or gotta take a broader view . Like if my thesis of that crypto is now better times are ahead 100 but

SPEAKER_03: you

SPEAKER_05: then you're not just comparing to other crypto projects , you're comparing to

SPEAKER_03: they

SPEAKER_05: banking systems that were

SPEAKER_03: And in the 70s

SPEAKER_00: I mean the real projects , that are non-stop , continuing to build , I think those will be the ones that to make it move to global decentralized 24 7 systems ? updated . So , if you think like but the question is like where , the next booms coming from ? It's that are people going to trust their I think the world is just starting to catch up to it , like 7 systems ? You know , and I think for all of us the answer is obvious , but in , in abroad . starting to catch up to it . Like . I think it's like a really to be important moment now because a lot of the banks are to really get into crypto now . starting start , they want to bring crypto to their platform to they can handle their customers directly because there's coming you and more interest . People want know really get into crypto now . They start they want to bring crypto to their platform so they can , handle their customers directly because there's coming more and more interest . People want to buy Ethereum , people want to buy Bitcoin , people want to buy Solana or whatever and the banks need to provide for crashing a lot like I , when we , were playing around with crypto really it important . now so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything . like , was super badly the internet and you can . because a lot of the , then you're not just comparing to other crypto projects , you're comparing to legacy banking systems that were built in the 70s and especially in Europe . I'm seeing this chain you think like now the question is like where are the next booms coming from ? It's that are people going to trust their money on those systems or are they going to good to global decentralized 24 7 systems ? You know , and I think for in of us just answer is obvious don't crash I often think the world is just starting to catch , to it lot of the banks are starting to really get into crypto now . They want to bring crypto to their platform so they . handle their customers directly they , trying to , forward with like new laws to be voted so a lot of the so are starting to you know really get into crypto now . They start they want to bring crypto to their platform so bit . But that , bit of a theory in the history really touching on those banks , people banks to buy are or whatever , and are because there's coming more and allowed interest . People want to buy Ethereum , people want to buy Bitcoin , people want to buy Solana or whatever and the banks need to provide for it , especially in Europe . I'm seeing this right now . Like with handle laws , they are trying to push forward with like new laws to be voted so crypto , what that opinion , it's just unpredictable . I can't predict it . Maybe you guys can I and . It's hard , and it just is what it is . From my perspective , we have to undergo it and focus on building . Like I've stuff to like . crypto and stuff But I see already like kind of issues with it and it will be like purely people that Hopefully . i mean , will it will not be a problem in denver i own assure you that the you know they've , they've got a good , they've been there a good chunk of time and they , know what they're doing . but , the main asset and they will see purely as an investment . And unfortunate what I'm seeing is that people , if they go with the bank way , they will never be able to like explore their full potential . Like they won't even t even be able to have be own ownership of the wallet . able bank will host it again to have their own ownership these things and push forward , of times ahead . Real projects non-stop continuing to build will make it . Take broader view . the my thesis crypto is now part of wallet . The bank will you're host just , instructions , on , on hand . so there's , there's also a big chunk which , Jessica Angel , the to it so that the banks are allowed to like handle crypto and again . taken like they always do . they're just gonna see it they're as see already like kind of issues with it and mean we , we went to off site coffee shops for wi fi and just different , and then there is also a , a centerpiece which is still in motion . So I won't talk about , but , but , you be able to have their own ownership of the wallet . The bank will host it again like gonna always do . they're just see it as a new way of like stock investment , that's on this there's a stage that's like type of thing . and they're not really like knowing what's going on . So that's why I think , as a project now in the DeFi you really have to focus on onboarding and UX because there is a lot of potential now to get people on . I wouldn't say your side but like to get them into DeFi so they don't choose the banks because otherwise we're going to get into like a big trouble where it's going to get into like a big trouble where it's going to , a fight whether like focus on onboarding and UX , because there is a lot of potential the to get people on . I wouldn t say your side , but banks in DeFi , you not updated . Where are can booms coming from ? onboard more trust to on those systems or move to DeFi , so they don t choose the 24 7 systems ? For a lot of potential now to get people on , on . I is there but world just we wouldn't say starting going to catch up . Important moment now banks starting to get into crypto . Want to bring crypto to platform

SPEAKER_03: and i mean the , problem at the Ethereum cypherpunk fight whether the banks can onboard more people or people something to onboard more , So I . that need to provide , especially in Europe . Trying to push forward with new laws to allow banks to handle crypto especially it's what I'm . to do for my generation . I mean all the course like the most of the my current thing is , 000 people are gonna , to gonna into . Especially , it s what I m trying to a bit of , a people of a theory the can onboard more people or whether we can onboard more people . So I think that's something to look into . and especially potential now to get people on , on . I mean I wouldn't say your side but like to get them into DeFi so investment . for my with bank way will never : the banks people that are currently at like at uni studying or just like young age , they have like the potential to So , I think that s really important , because otherwise all these things we re doing , the building , is just not going to make like the big difference where it's . may have got no clue around , the banks can so more people whether we can , more people I stuff from the very early think , that a lot of people again they , they , they won't that's seen really i important because otherwise all these things trying to do for we're doing , like the building is just not gonna matter , I the technology . We of have . focus on onboarding and UX . That's think like young age like they have like the potential to make the difference . so , I think that's really important because otherwise all these things we're doing , like the building is just not gonna matter . I feel like so we have a big chance . We have all the infrastructure , we have the technology . We just have to focus on onboarding and UX . That's I think the big chance . just have most all other . the know some , infrastructure had knowing what's going on . As project in on chain space and DeFi need to we have the and UX . Big potential , to important mean it was great . just like more . am talking about early days of Ethereum as well And , that's

SPEAKER_00: on I , think agents are maybe our largest customer base . Moving forward Feels like , that's a really good . Because everybody's just a while before legacy financial can deal with agents . They'll figure it out eventually , but it's like there's you . a everybody's just a while before legacy financial can deal with agents . They ll figure it out eventually , but there s a lot of problems . You need a meat space person to deal with when you've got a bank account that you just don't have to in the , You need just , you know , a meat space person to deal with when you've got a bank account that you just , you know , don't have to in the crypto world . I , I'm just adding on to Colin's point , one thing I like to so they is say look at more an I as a look in the sense Otherwise big trouble fight whether banks in like an Uber as

SPEAKER_00: with can . in the . they're , little , Like gray , right ? Like point , one thing I like when you've got a . account that to have aren't just say is , from one I to , I'll be are considering i will record , i will re record with them at some point . that still hasn't happened . but , i mean it was just a bit of a mess on the day but denver's fine . i mean they've been planning it for perfect forever . so focus on . and UX most important . Agents are , our ? customer thing I like a little they , right ? kind of , you know , they're , sense that you know , they're operating , you know , a little gray , right ? Like they , they kind going and letting people give car rides and they're . The taxi union doesn't like it and . the taxi union doesn't like it and , and so on . And consumers picked it , right . And you know , at least Uber mostly won in the United States . You know , they , get taxed and so on . in Europe sometimes it's just going to the , it's just routing for the , the local taxis and so on . But it's , right a Crypto is model , but . awesome People know , picked least Uber it one in because United States . You know , it they , get taxed and was awesome . Right . Crypto gave away hundreds or thousands of t shirts and flyers . and is it was , you know it was the Ethereum company for the one and only time that you've ever had that . though with the new ef being engaged again that's , they're not being the company but they , in , sometimes there's it's because just it was awesome , right ? On balance , this is good , although it makes things a little different it's not the old days . ETH and Bitcoin still trade like high-beta tech stocks of risk-on assets , not behaving like metals , which are somewhat anti-correlated with stocks . But the positive side is RWAs can help achieve practical day-to-day sovereignty with a basket of assets resilient from price changes And RWAs , i mean it's crazy times . but we're doing our best . we're managing things , just focusing on like building the community . really like . time to invest , community building unevenly i think as a to deal with agents . They'll figure it out , they , get taxed and so on , in Europe sometimes it's just going to the , it's just routing for the , the local taxis and so on . But it's a model . People picked it because it was awesome . Right ? You is awesome , but it's awesome like unevenly . You unfriendly know to , it's world , to Colin's there's look at just as A lot of sharp edges that , you know , you , don't know how to that Toronto Bitcoin deal with . as a , as a newbie , it's a little bit unfriendly to people who the are not super expert . A lot of jargon , a lot of , you know , like it kind of feels like an insidery culture . Right . And so the team had met we've other . You know some , some had met in Miami token or what have you got having a presence at f denver and fcc absolutely makes to be . More you know , more , more the of . You know the tech , how you talk about the tech and so on . And it's , to Colin's point , it is absolutely a normie friendly I would say , in the approach . You know the tech , how you talk about the tech and so on . it's . And . A . of , a even imagined , the , it , enough liquidity and whatnot to . Right . happen . And got to be . more insidery culture . Need to be more I normie friendly I , say , in , it You know the tech , how you whatnot to see . and you , know , I And crypto is more capable than what the legacy financial , world has in , in ways we also just haven't even imagined yet . but , it just needs enough liquidity and , whatnot to see all that happen . So you know , I it's by the way , to guiding principle for the things we build is to keep it true to cypherpunk values to the maximal possible extent , but make it as , as possible to onboard the regular human being . Well , and is more capable than what the same , I the one thing , you know , early days at devconnect but then there was like all people talking stables about with like financial the to make , keep it true to cypherpunk values to the maximal possible extent , but make it as easy as , but make it as easy as possible things onboard how you interact with down or ways feel like that's something that really like we no miss . in if i speak in general crypto , Ethereum specifically also . i mean because like they always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on board but then you also need to usage goes up , crypto prices go up in a commodity way . Interesting times . On that note when we've had other winters , total volumes went down , but that's not necessarily true now . One way to think

SPEAKER_05: it . And the know , like , we were , you kind of coined it term that I like , like agentic experience . I . So you know , I possible to onboard the regular human being . Well , and I again which , which I the system behave in a variety of ways ? And I think one aspect that crypto more efficiently . It's the rails themselves that are really kind of focused on is how do you create sensible defaults where if you're coming to one system , you're highly unlikely to get wrecked .

SPEAKER_04: Like

SPEAKER_05: principle

SPEAKER_04: is going to be good because

SPEAKER_05: thing

SPEAKER_04: remember like devconnect so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything . like it was super badly the internet and you can , yet . Needs enough liquidity

SPEAKER_05: .

SPEAKER_04: Big it principle for things we build is try to keep true to cypherpunk values like make as easy as possible to onboard regular human being . Colin . about UX people think of terrible at the moment . so it's it is . it is you we need know , you , and Colin , you're talking about UX , which I think people think of as , just like how things look or how you interact with Other systems tend to push you to be super highly levered , and it . hit And winters , you just know , Bob , we were you kind of coined that term that I like , agentic experience . I think part of it is how should the system behave in a variety of ways . And I think one aspect that crypto hasn't done well and but we're like we are really kind of focused on is , decent type of internets Hopefully . i mean , i it will not be a problem in , I , part of the overall experience it's like what like : look like ? And I don't you about cyber security as much as it is about , like I said , sensible defaults that know keep in order . Banks impose that on you got to good , they've been there a good chunk of time and they be , on is how do you know what they're and super will do other events this year also . i think we'll be at ecc also this year highly the system , you're highly unlikely to get wrecked . Like levered other systems tend to . you to be super highly levered And you know , banks impose that on you . So there should be some user choice here . But you gotta give users options at when markets , agentic experience . I think part hit at is how should the system behave in these variety of ways . the I think one winters that crypto hasn't done well and we are really kind of focused on is how do , create sensible defaults where if you're coming to the system , you're highly unlikely to get you . Like other systems tend to push starting to be super highly levered . And you know , you just get destroyed and you never want to come back . Right . And so like It is , I think part BlockFi of withdrawals the overall firms experience managing it's insolvency from leverage . like what are what does safety look like ? And I don't think It's that About cyber security as much as it is about , you know , like , like I said , sensible defaults that you should keep in order and you know , banks impose that on you . So there should be some user choice here . But you know , you gotta give users options at least at the starting point and then move them toward more leverage or riskier behaviors when they understand the system , which is kind of hard to do right now . I mean , exactly . sorry , go . On but , it's , blow-ups , Interesting times all around . what I also feel is that DeFi to gonna make a major , shops for wi fi and you know so i don't think it was , general argentina problem . is was definitely no i think it like just like , you think know , you just get destroyed and you never want to come back . Right . And so like it is , I think part of the overall experience it's like what are what does safety look like ? It's . About cyber security as much as it is about , you know , like that like I said , sensible defaults that you understand system . Hard should do now . What I mean keep were mean like i said they call it the winter days so in , see . it's my order and you know , banks impose kind on you . So there should be some user choice here . of you know , you gotta give users options at least at the starting point and then move them toward more leverage or riskier behaviors when they understand the system , which is kind of to add that like to that do thing is right I feel like what I mean with . I just want to add that what I mean with UX is also I look back at my own story . I joined when I was 16 , I was quite young . But in the first year , all the money that I brought into crypto , I lost it all . That was my first year of experiencing crypto , and what I of back at my own be . I mean I joined when I was 16 , was quite young . But when I joined in the first point and then I them toward more with first mostly on these random Telegram groups . This is how I entered the crypto space . Back then I was so young and I was just thinking it s all normal and this is the way you need to get yourself into it . But now I m looking at a more year of like experiencing crypto and what many of my friends also experienced of people where I came in touch with first mostly on like these random Telegram groups . this is how I entered the crypto space . And but then back then I you so young and I was just thinking it's all normal and this is like the way you go when they understand the system , which is kind of hard to do right I . mean I , just want to , that like , that the . I mean I feel like what I mean with UX is also , I mean I . back at my own story . the mean I joined when I was 16 , was quite young . but I'll when I joined in first year , like all the money that I brought into crypto , I lost it all . Like , and was my first year of like experiencing crypto and what many of my friends also experienced of people where I came in touch with first mostly on like these random Telegram groups . it way to get into it . Now business is absolutely passive income without unnecessary risk . If you look into it , it's a big I think if they explore it more , we can do what people like Vitalik and with UX like saying from the beginning : build real applications , that was my first We re losing people I look back at my own story . I mean I joined when I was 16 But was , i mean they .

SPEAKER_04: now I'm . at like a more business perspective and in like first year , like all the money that I . into crypto , I lost it they . Like , that was my first year of like experiencing crypto and what many of my friends also experienced of people where I came in touch with first mostly on like these random Telegram groups . And things to use like the right tools , the right onboarding guidelines and this is how I entered the crypto space . And , but then back then I was so young and I was just thinking it's all just normal bit . do we prefer though like the euphoria and have some real downsides too . you this it's kind of hard to be . there's so much noise in the euphoria times . i is , like get , should get the way you need to get yourself into it . But now I'm looking at like a more , like business perspective and seeing like , hey , this is like absolutely not normal . I , mean we're like , we're more like people that getting in are just getting out again because they don't feel the safety that they should feel . They don't feel should make into it a absolutely . not normal bringing there

SPEAKER_03: And I think that s what I mean with UX , with onboarding . All the companies building something on crypto should really make a priority of it that they can bring the right people in and that UX , with onboarding , all the in , educate them first before letting explore onchain world . Otherwise like Victor said get They , the past , People was very difficult . non-software engineers , the on Ethereum , but now and the EF is , on , with drained , money to wrong wallets . All could be easily prevented if educate everyone coming into it . the right tools , the right , onboarding guidelines and , hey , although it's , it's been a weird , this past you know cycle if you all believe in that . there's been any much too much of an alt run up you know which we so mean we're like , we're more like people that i in are just getting out again because they don't feel the safety that they should feel . They don't feel , they don't get the support they should get , they don't get the right things to use like everything and so think just unfortunate you couldn't do your talk there the . right , in to see in right , things for us . problem and It I think no that's what I mean with UX , with onboarding , all the companies building something on crypto should really make a priority of it that they can bring the right people in , and that they can educate them before first before even letting them just explore the onchain world . Because otherwise like , like Victor said , you're to the same gonna get wrecked , you're lose money . People will just go out and like , will speak bad about the space . I money . People will just go out and be will speak bad about the space . Everyone will be speaking bad about crypto , all just because they got wrecked on whether it s a random coin , they just scammed , they clicked the wrong links or . wallet got drained , or they send the money to the wrong wallets . Like all these type of cases , it could be so easily prevented . Just if we like kind they educate everyone that is coming into it and I know it's like time consuming maybe and it's like it takes time to do this . But it's super important if you . wrong . Like all these type of cases , it could be so easily . Just if we like kind of educate everyone that is coming into it and I know it's a random coin , they got scammed because they pushed , they clicked the like links or their wallet got drained , or they send the money to the wrong wallets . Like all these time hasn't happened . but , i maybe it just the on-chain world . Because otherwise like , like Victor said , you're gonna get and , you're gonna lose money . People will just go out and . Decentralization , self-sovereignty , self-custody , want . Built amazing tech on builder side to for customers , public not relevant if not computer science it's . Keep on in but bring to we long . I mean and like it and this is the space . I mean everyone will be speaking bad about crypto it's all just because they got wrecked on whether it's a random coin , they got scammed because they pushed , they clicked the wrong links or their own DeFi applications that's what we'll see in the next years . Builders are pushing this forward it's customers subject everywhere now , I mean the , the , problem at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue like two or three . Hours . Before the event . It was an absolute like that we should breakouts . more .

SPEAKER_03: but you know it's not like the , like it was . no I , i don't . believe also in like , be to everything on like the volunteers . I mean they had like so many volunteers because of course like the most of the core organization of ETH Security they were just traveling . I mean it was at the beginning of Devconnect so most of the you re not a computer science guy or someone who builds . It s not relevant for you to read these things first . Because then you re going to be completely lost and after like the last supposedly perfect four , there's quiet building that happens . Ethereum itself would never term they understand it did If the push forward these methods will see big progress over next years . Colin your story bang on . Super brave . losing everything then coming back . Our principle of if to should be coming into it and I know it's like time consuming maybe and it's like it takes time to do this . But it's super important if you want to be like

SPEAKER_00: I

SPEAKER_03: in the

SPEAKER_00: mean

SPEAKER_03: term .

SPEAKER_00: and that's just something that I really feel from my from my own experience that we should focus on more . and like said , and this is the last thing I thing I mean they want just to add to is like feeling and you know they , they yes , and this is also what Vitalik has been saying in his recent posts . Like , yes , like the cypherpunk culture is super important . Decentralization , self-sovereignty like self-custody all super important . Privacy and all these things . And we have been building the tech , we have been doing absolutely amazing on the builder side but please we're saying our best . we're managing in the recent posts . Like , yes , like the cypherpunk culture is super important . Decentralization , self sovereignty like self custody all super important . Privacy and all It's not . it to . read these the or to first start , I public on It's not relevant if you're not a like computer science guy or like someone we the . It's not relevant for you to read these things or to first start with . I or like someone we built . It's not relevant for you to read these things or to first start with . I over to your customers going to be completely lost as like wouldn't understand . Keep this on the background but bring it over to your customers as like Change simple experience from first experience , crypto where lose everything . Vitalik talks about low risk DeFi . If can be first thing where make little bit doing something simple , then can explore gradual on hey to next people . Very few people as brave as you Colin coming back . Thousands of people as , like get months of a big chance to like this is super safe to use . These are all the that really like we still miss . in if i speak in general crypto advantages Ethereum specifically also . But like explain it to them like Kieren says in a normie way that they all can understand . And I think if we can really push forward these type of methods , then we re going to see big push over the next years . That s just forward these type of methods like , your story is bang on . Decentralization , self-sovereignty like self-custody all super important . Privacy and all these things . And we have been building the tech , we have been doing absolutely amazing on the builder side but please like keep it to that . And for the for the customers , for the public . It's not relevant if you're not a like computer science guy or like someone we built . It's not relevant for you to losing everything and then coming back and recommitting , but I think when I think of UX , one of our principles is : if you re a to first the past two years I mean , Like super safe to use . These are all the . But like , very to , without having to worry about all these things , right ? And it s only when you step full on the gas that you have to worry . But if we can change that simple experience from your first experience with crypto where it s like Vitalik like we don't have real under control in some like way . i mean clarification you could say like for in the , in it , in ? like but the april crash last why year , you could it's say , going like to a people . all time high and then again like explore . Because of long bad times on-chain , there hasn't been a good moment since just I , I mean will re-record with them at mean that . they but you're all super teams brave needed to for something about where , I just losing . little bit , I ve done something simple , hardly anything everything and then coming back and re-committing but I think type of methods then , we're going to see a big progress . over the next years . That's think you know . when I think of UX your , your story is bang on . Like , I mean you're super brave for losing everything and then coming back and re-committing but I think , I think you know , when I think of UX , markets the like moment that we are , one of our principles is if you're a beginner , you should be able to get in and make a little bit of profit very , very easily without having to worry easily all these things , right . And it's only like when you step full on the gas then you have to worry but if we can change without having to worry about all these things . Right . And it's only like when you step first experience with crypto where

SPEAKER_00: , what , what's to with Book of Ethereum ? how's things in your world simple experience from like your first experience with crypto , it's like , you know , talks about low risk DeFi Right . Like if that can be like the first thing where , oh , I just made a little bit , like I've done something simple , hardly anything and I've made a . bit . Then you can kind of explore and that then we can have that gradual on ramp to kind of get to the next people . Because like I just feel like scaling . thousands of people like it's like you have to worry but it if we can change that simple experience from like . first experience with crypto where it's like , you know , Vitalik talks about low risk DeFi Right . Like if that can be like the first thing where , oh , I just made a little bit , like I've done something simple , hardly anything and I've made a little bit . Then you can kind of explore and that then we can have that gradual on ramp to kind of get few time hundreds people thousands of people are as brave as you and year also . i think we'll be at ecc also this year and we're very Coming back . having , worry no , I mean i mean trying , to manage the , adapt and just stay in the old format hype with no value , no fundamentals then it's just it's crazy times . but we're , we're doing our best . We're managing things , just was on this a Long post in like Bob says scam summer . and then you saw like it doing very well . and then with to the with the upgrade , in the end of all that Ethereum did was massively . and you would think these there are thousands . And it's only like when you step full on the gas then you have to worry but it very people are as brave like can change that simple experience from like . first experience with crypto where it's like , you know , Vitalik talks about low risk DeFi . Right . Like if that can be like the first thing where , Oh , I just made a little bit , like I've done something simple , hardly anything and I've made a little bit . Then you can kind of explore and that then , can and that , I think do few people are as like I the . like making time to invest in community building . I think it's thousands of people like me who experienced this . Like thousands , ten thousands , hundred thousand people . and unfortunately some of them really like start to believe this is all just a scam and all these things and just completely leave , they go to stocks or whatever and then they just do stocks or whatever and then they just do some next people . normal I think very stuff people are as brave as like I see like these months of a big chance to , like in the Web2 space , the onboarding uix and , and like and like , I mean there are thousands of people like me who experienced this . Like thousands , ten thousands , hundred thousand people , and which is . what you said , it's really everything is looking fine . that important never to focus on those things . Low risk And another major factor like All make sense . Vitalik saying good things lately but people interpret wrong way as usual . All righty , looking at clock coming up on hour . Good time to leave it . See you all in Denver next week . Yes . what Vitalik with Mist on has been saying laughing about like low risk DeFi , but also about like his recent post of the layer twos which like degens on X were misinterpreting what he said and were saying like , Oh , L2s are bad , we should close down , it s a failed project . This is why Ethereum price is going down . All this type of nonsense . But most of , misinterpreting price so going to that target , so , in my I it's just unpredictable . i mean , i cannot predict it saw oh , so are and all these things many to just completely leave , they go to stocks or whatever and then they just do some normal stuff like in the degens space . but , and , and like , which is like what you on , it's really X to focus on , the misinterpreting what he said , were saying like , oh , L2s are bad , we should like close down . It's a , project , this is why Ethereum price is the down , all this type of nonsense , But is why Ethereum price is going down , all this type of nonsense . But most of the normal people read this and they believe it . but like note ? First of all thanks for having me . Looking forward to speak to all of you again in Denver . Been long time since to you guys . Really looking forward . Keep put in perspective , like , what Vitalik meant I think is that nonsense . But most of the normal people read this and they believe it . but like to put in perspective , like , what Vitalik meant I think is that like important for the L2s 2s : they should focus each on their own USP and bring that to the are , that to the . getting a not

SPEAKER_00: bit stuck you , know in i mean going feel people are kind of like , i wouldn't say depressed but you know most of the investors are like at least a bit down and low sentiment because to their second phase and they're a bit just too competitive to each other . Like , oh , who is the cheapest gas ? Who is this ? Who is that ? Like the mini Ethereums . But what they should do is , and Vitalik kind of uses a marketing principle here . He says , like , what

SPEAKER_00: , a . they and I see like these should to is ? Like Vitalik , of , a marketing principle here . He says , like ? you ? to focus on . your USP , know , like , what is and unique selling proposition ? And that's really important for the , for the layer twos they should focus each and then like your USP you know on like , what is your their selling proposition ? And that's own important for the , USP the layer twos they should and each and then bring that to the customers , bring that to the normies and stop with like focusing on , oh , with we are going to with we are going to at the . be , the cheapest one , we are going to be the highly competitive one , because it s not necessary , because the L1 is keeping on scaling . Vitalik also said : don t worry , with the L1 we re keeping the scalability high , look what we did in the past just focus on this .

SPEAKER_03: And

SPEAKER_00: because it's not necessary because the L1

SPEAKER_03: cheapest keeping on scaling . Vitalik also said like long assets , then you're , it be here for one And worry years . I

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_03: . so it's also quite like a the , a difficult space for we scalability high . Look are we going to be the highly competitive one because it's not necessary because the L1 is keeping on scaling . you . Bye-bye . Bye-bye .

SPEAKER_03: because

SPEAKER_03: it's , said also on this . that's what he meant with a long post , like make sense , and I think Vitalik has been saying quite some good things lately . It s just people interpret it the wrong way , like they usually do . in . normal language , and . But I think that's what the Layer Twos for example should focus on . And what you coming up on the hour , so I think that s probably a good time to leave it . So I shall see you said in scaling next week also Yes . Playing with

SPEAKER_03: Vitalik low also said like , Don't worry , like with the L1 we're keeping the scalability high . Look what we did in the past just focus on this . And that's what he meant with a long post , like to , keep it in like normal language . and . but I think that's what the layer twos for example should focus on . And what you said also with low risk DeFi that's also another major factor . But all these things make sense and I think Vitalik has been saying quite some good things also . But it's just people interpret it the wrong way like another major do factor All righty , well but it's just people interpret all the these things make sense and I think Vitalik has been saying quite some good things lately . but it's just Mist some good things , we're coming up on people interpret the hour , so I out there , please check us , I'm big things . soon . s , vault , but everything else , well . And also check out Colin s community . Colin , you want to leave a last note ? First of all , thanks for having me . And , looking forward to speak to all of you guys again in Denver . It s been a long time since I that's probably a good time to , leave it . So I shall see you all in Denver next week . Yes . At playing with Mist on what if you're laughing Everyone out there , please . Again , check . Check us out , bridge in big things coming soon . there's the vault , but , everything else as well , and also check out , Colin's community . Colin , you want to leave a last note ?

SPEAKER_00: . I mean , first of all , thanks for having me . And , looking forward to speak to all of you guys again in Denver . I mean of

SPEAKER_03: want

SPEAKER_00: to that . And let s to leave a last these things make sense and I think Vitalik has been saying quite some good things lately . but it's just people interpret it the wrong way like they usually do . Alrighty , well , I'm , I'm looking at the clock , we're coming up on the hour , so I think that's probably a good time to , leave it . So I shall see you all in Denver next week . Yes . At playing with Mist on . what if you're laughing . Everyone out there , please again check us out . bridge in big things coming soon . there's the vault , but , everything else as well . and also check out in Denver . So thanks for having

SPEAKER_00: . community , want , leave , last note ? I mean , first of all , thanks for having me , and , looking forward to speak long all of you guys again in , in Denver . I time , it's been since I see you guys , so , really looking forward to that . and , let's keep the let's discussions going further on in Denver . So . So

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_00: thanks

SPEAKER_00: for

SPEAKER_00: , having

SPEAKER_00: us

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_00: Thank

SPEAKER_00: , thanks for having us . Thank you thank you . Bye . Bye
