SPEAKER_00: You are live. We are live.

SPEAKER_01: Hello.

SPEAKER_00: Hello and welcome everybody.

SPEAKER_01: Hello.

SPEAKER_00: Hello. It's the week before ETH Denver. One of the major events of the Ethereum calendar, basically like the regional event for North America. So that's coming up. So, yeah, as well as the usual Strato crew, we have Colin De Picker here. Is that how you pronounce your surname?

SPEAKER_02: Colin?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, that's correct. That's my name. Hi everyone. So yeah, Colin is my actual name. Most people know me under the name of Shiba Tarzan which is like the crypto name I use. But yeah, my actual name is Colin.

SPEAKER_00: So sometimes Shiba Tarzan, sometimes Crypto Tarzan.

SPEAKER_01: So is this. The Twitter handle is Cryptotarzan. I mean that was my name that I chose when I initially joined the space and then when we did our ENS thing with Boo, then I had to came up with an original ENS name and then it became Shiba Tarzan. I don't know how but I came up with it. So I think it's quite funny if you think about the meme.

SPEAKER_00: Guess it sticks forever like Victor's Vic for Wong that we've told the story of before.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, probably, probably is going to.

SPEAKER_00: Be the heritage handles story. So yeah, we're here. Myself, Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem. Kieran James Lubin, CEO. Victor Wong, CPO. And Michael Tan who has got a little demo for us which we're going to start with.

SPEAKER_02: Sure.

SPEAKER_03: Hey everyone. So back here with another demo of Strato. For the last week and week and a half going forward we're gonna have. We're currently in a trading and referral contest which I'll be showing you an update on. Let's start with that sec. So right now our Top gainer is anonymously. 10210d28f4 percent gain. You know, not very much. So everyone's got a chance if you would like to have a late entry in. As for the referral contest, we currently have 3 by this user in our community. And yeah, a couple referrals here. We're also going to be talking about the vault that we've added as of last Friday. Let me show you that. So this is the current position of all position I have on mainnet deposit 144.96 of ETH Gold. And I'm current. I've currently earned 1.84. But let's do a little demo on the testnet. Make my first deposit here. This account currently has USDST and SILVA and silver.

SPEAKER_00: Oh no silver.

SPEAKER_03: Let's put five USDST. Confirm deposit. Still pausing. Successfully deposited. Great. So if you click this link you can see what tokens are currently in the vault. It's a market making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools and we give everybody an opportunity to participate. And some of the APY on the mainnet is currently 102.67 which is great. Can also find recent activities of swaps by the vault here. And this is all done with our automated market making bot which you can actually find a blog about on our website. And if you ever want to withdraw you just hit the withdrawal and there you have it.

SPEAKER_02: Hear me?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Jumping on the bot quickly. So the APY obviously phenomenally high. As the assets go up it will probably not be as phenomenally high. It is measuring the true change in underlying asset value. So theoretically all the trades are profitable. Or it doesn't do them. But it's also the. So then the risk is sort of inventory risk right. Like it still has to hold ETH and and so on but but it is up in absolute terms. And when you deposit to it it's sort of one asset at a time mark the market. So if you got some gold tokenized, you deposit that, you've got some ETH, you deposit that and so on. But you can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal. So you you just get a sort of pro rata share of the bot's assets on withdrawal which hopefully have increased. But just so you know. So if you deposit and then you're confused when you get a basket of assets back. That's the why. But yeah APY is very high at the moment. We're excited about it.

SPEAKER_03: Everyone take advantage now where you can.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, well thank you. I guess we'll move on to danba. Want to hang around Mike? You coming to Denver?

SPEAKER_03: Yes. I'm arriving Monday night.

SPEAKER_00: Excellent. So I was trying to count how many times I've been to ETH Denver and I think 2009 was my first. So I think this is maybe my fifth or my fourth. Anyone else?

SPEAKER_02: Veterans moved down though I went early and then I sort of. We had a few years where we just sort of skipped it in our deep in our enterprise days. But I think we went and sponsored in 2017 actually and so it was still kind of had like an organic feel to it. I think it still does. I mean it's one of the unique ones where by the way. Okay, so how are the tickets done? I know we've dealt with it at a corporate level but it's a free event. Right? But yeah. Is it like a lottery? Like how do you.

SPEAKER_00: No, no, it's it's a bit weird.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So you can go for free right? That's kind of a key thing. Right. You know it started out very hackathony. So it's always been a grassroots volunteers like no ticket prices for normies. But you have to join the Spork DAO for your free ticket so you have to do this onboarding. At least now I think you don't actually have to use a wallet. I think you used to in some prior years. You had to. There seems to be like a web 2.0 onboarding kind of flow that gets you there. But there's quite a few screens of stuff to click through that's for sure. Or you can just pay.

SPEAKER_02: Um.

SPEAKER_00: But yeah, so I mean I don't know what the numbers are going to be this year. Probably around 20000 from what I understand. That seems to be what the case was last time. How about yourself, Victor? Have been. You've been a few times.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, like Kieran, I was there early and then I think I went again. My first kind of kickstart was last year.

SPEAKER_00: Right?

SPEAKER_04: Yeah. Now we're going back again so.

SPEAKER_00: And I know it's your first time, Colin.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, for me it's going to be the first time. I mean I started actually going last year to ETHCC so this is the first time that there is like an opportunity for me to go to Denver. So yeah, I'm excited. I heard like a lot of different opinions. People say it's great. Other people say kind of changed over the years and it's a bit more marketing related and less core Ethereum stuff. But yeah, I mean I'm gonna try to experience it for myself and see what it's all about. I mean like I said 20,000 people is still. I mean it's the only major US event I think there is in the year, so yeah, I'm quite excited to explore it. I think it's going to be great. Also they changed the format from what I heard. Maybe Bob, you can explain a bit on what changed there. And if it's going to have an impact on the previous years, of course. But yeah, I'm quite excited for my first time.

SPEAKER_00: Have you been before Mark? Have you been before Mike?

SPEAKER_03: Oh, sorry, yeah, I was there last year with you.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, yes. And that was your first.

SPEAKER_03: Yes, that was my first.

SPEAKER_00: There we go. There we go.

SPEAKER_04: So.

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, I mean, Colin, you were at ETHCC last year. I think they're fairly comparable in size. I kind of think of ETHCC as the European one and ETH Denver's the North America one. Kind of similar. Is size different?

SPEAKER_01: ETHCC just had like I feel like it had a lot of side events. Because for ETHCC, the main event tickets were just like. I mean they were super pricey. I think it was like €500 for a ticket. And just like many people or like many developers just came to ETHCC and then they just went to all the side events to get the free drinks, the free food and then try to connect somewhere, try to get a job. I mean I spoke to many people at ETHCC that were actually trying to get a job into the crypto space and they said, oh yeah, the main event is too expensive. So that's why I also think there were so many side events at ETHCC. I mean for the location, ETHCC is not that big. Bob, you explored it. Compared to a city like Denver, it's super small. And then I mean there were so many side events was just incredible.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean I think it's become the curse of the major events. They kind of become like a meeting point. You know, they're like, all right, if you're there, people will be there. Right. So they become like, are you going to be there? And it's kind of like not so tied even to the main event. It's just like, are you physically going to be in that place on those days?

SPEAKER_02: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: Great. Where are you going to be? What are you going to be doing? I don't know. There's all these different side events. Just sign up, sign up for 100 things and see what you get and see where people are. They can be very, very fragmented. I mean, my understanding of the move to ETHCC was partly to try and counter that because at least it's like a physically smaller place. So the side events have to be kind of closer together so you're not so fragmented. When I went to ETHCC the prior year in Brussels, I felt that was very, very fragmented. I think that was kind of a really bad kind of year that they had to sort of react to. And it has been a criticism of ETH Denver as well. I mean, one thing I've seen that's happening in Denver this year is like happened in DevConnect. It's kind of like the World Fair, lots of things under the same roof. There seems to be kind of a push to that kind of thing. Right. Of saying, well, we're going to get lots of threads under that same banner. It's like, come to the main site and stay right. There's enough going on that you don't have to leave. You've got these different threads happening.

SPEAKER_04: Well, I think one of the challenges that Denver has, and I kind of felt this at DevConnect this year. What was that? The event itself is in the middle of nowhere. So you gotta kind of make a call between like. And a lot of the side events are downtown. So you gotta kind of make a call of like, do I go downtown or do I go out there? And it kind of depends on who you're meeting really. You know, sometimes it just makes more sense to kind of stay downtown.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Have a day here, a day in the middle, a day on the other side.

SPEAKER_04: There's no middle. That's the problem. Right. Like there's just. You just gotta go one or the other. You know, I almost tried a bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuffle shuttle myself and that was terrifying. I'll never do that again. I'm way too old for that.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I went on a lime scooter thing in Austin one time and it was like, this is so dangerous.

SPEAKER_02: In Austin.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Wow. Okay. That's just like a rattly crappy bit of road at the side. No helmet. Just like, this is bad. One of the things I saw as part of our sponsorship, which was quite interesting at ETH Denver, is they actually have a condition in there to be a sponsor of the main event. That you have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours. I thought that was quite interesting. It's like. Right, yeah, you want to be in the gang. No competition. Because I mean that's like the real killer thing. Right. It used to be side events were in the evening, days before, days after, and now it's just. No, we're just having our main conference on exactly the same day as you. Like, straight competition. Yeah, it's funny how the norms have changed. Like, Victor, you talked about that with regards to Ripple and consensus.

SPEAKER_04: Oh, no, it was EthCC Toronto.

SPEAKER_00: EthCC.

SPEAKER_04: It was, yes, that they got booted out. And then they made their parallel conference later though. Their parallel conference had.

SPEAKER_00: And this was a few short years ago, but very amazing and controversial at the time that you would dare to have some competing content. Same city at the same time.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah, I mean it was. And well, I think the big thing was they had these giant Ripple buses in front that ferried you. So it was just like. You know, also in the days when they saw blockchain as direct competitor to Swift, I think that that ship has sailed. Like, I think it definitely is a competitor.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean talking about the corporate thing that you were mentioning there, Colin, so there has been some criticism of ETH Denver specifically for having headline sponsors that are Ethereum killers in quotes. Yeah, so it's like how dare you have whatever, like Polkadot as a primary sponsor or BNB, Cosmos or what have you. But they've always had this. They've always had a line. So it's not like we had a token where you've got Tron everywhere pasted all over the shop. You know, like that's not happening. And you're not seeing like Bitboy as a main speaker has happened in Blockchain Futurist in Toronto. So there is a line which I think is sort of been like, you know, Ethereum and friends with a number of those friends having become L2s or EVM support over time. Anyway, so it's kind of like a big tent vision. But also saying that sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for normal people, which is.

SPEAKER_04: Now that Vitalik doesn't like O2s. Do we still have that? Are they out of the 10?

SPEAKER_02: There we go.

SPEAKER_04: Yes, exactly.

SPEAKER_01: Like.

SPEAKER_04: Well, the other thing that's a little bit different, Colin, about at Denver, it's like you have like the hardcore dev conferences, devconnect, ETHCC.

SPEAKER_01: Mhm.

SPEAKER_04: And then you have like what I call the commercial conferences, you know, consensus, Token or these ones. But at Denver is kind of in the middle. I think they try to be the culture conference, but it's a little bit of both. So it's.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I think also like, for example, DevConnect is almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation. I mean they have a full DevConnect team for it. So that kind of makes sense. But from what I spoke to a few guys of the EF also lately and they say like, they have been making their way more into Denver this year than they did before. There is going to be an Ethereum Foundation day, if I am right. Yeah, there's going to be like a full day for them. And they have like a whole section also this time. So like you say, Victor, it's a bit in the middle this time. And absolutely. On other events, like Token Dubai, Token Singapore, that's even more to the commercial side. And I mean you won't see that much of the core principles. I think so. I mean, I think it's a bit in the middle, but I see still like a lot of chances and opportunities. I mean, it is still like the biggest, like I said before, the biggest US event. 20,000 people coming there. I mean there's still, it's a big audience, but you don't need to lie about it. It's a big audience still. So I think there's a lot of chances for them.

SPEAKER_04: Yeah. And Kieran, like in the past, I think the first time we went there were like a couple hundred people. And then next year it got huge quick.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it felt familiar. Right. It was kind of. And it was very Denver. Like it was down the street from the dispensaries. There's Kombucha on top. I assume that maybe still is there, but yeah, it had a kind of like hippie, agora, feel to it, which maybe it still does. We're gonna see.

SPEAKER_00: Sports palace was a cool building. So apparently I was wondering why it had the setup it had which is like these sorts of like stories with like ramps around between them. But apparently it used to be like a car warehouse place. That's why.

SPEAKER_04: Interesting.

SPEAKER_00: But you just had this multi level thing with sort of ramps going up and round it and some of them were just talks and stuff. But yeah, it was only a few hundred.

SPEAKER_02: I might be getting this wrong but I remember. So I think the venue has changed again at some point. It was like a rodeo, right?

SPEAKER_00: No, it's the same. It's the same venue but a different building on that same complex.

SPEAKER_02: I see.

SPEAKER_04: Gotcha.

SPEAKER_02: But I remember I was catching up with John some years ago and he was telling me just the legacy had to go to deal with the amount of people who wanted to come which are pretty extreme. Like on the order of renting out a stadium. Which is pretty funny to me.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it's certainly a pretty major undertaking there. But yeah, there has always been a large sort of cultural and artsy kind of part to it as well. So, so yeah, I mean the thing I've been mainly involved with there is this Museum of Ethereum. So when you come into the venue you go through the main ticketing. There is going to be an area which is called Biddle Alley New Biddle City which is kind of a Blade Runnery sort of futurescape somewhere like Meow Wolf or Harry Potter Diagon Alley kind of vibes of going through this area and there are going to be various different sub areas and zones in there. But yes, one of the large ones there is Museum of Ethereum which we are sponsoring as our Golem of DEVCON 0 presentation. Age and then ourselves DEFCON 1 era. Super OGs still going. And it's a mixture of physical and digital artifacts drawing largely from the early days of Ethereum. You know, bios and interviews and everything. Also, some photos through 2014 largely from Taylor Gerring, also some of them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in April 2014. Then the other thing I've been working on for that which I think is really, really cool I've called the Ethereum Time Machine. What I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software. I have got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads. And so I was trying to get back to Frontier software. I can run Frontier software. However, the second phase is actually mining. So the goal I had is can you run 2015 era software on contemporary hardware? CPU mine the chain back to life. So that's what I've been working on like in the background for a couple of months. So basically like GPUs at first get the thing moving and then as it's moving the difficulties coming down and you're easing off. I'm in the final phases of that I wanted to revive Frontier. Sadly that's a very, very expensive proposition that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20k of GPU on. But, but yes, I have revived Homestead. So what you'll have there is running Mist. Running Mist at Homestead, CPU mine transactions back and forth, sitting there getting the real experience of 10 year old software. Original chain, original protocol. So that was fun.

SPEAKER_04: Optional in the real experience or like, I'm sorry, is pulling out your hair in frustration optional or required experience? Because I remember a lot of that myself.

SPEAKER_00: I'm just hoping they don't crash too often.

SPEAKER_04: I remember Mist crashing a lot like when we were playing around with it.

SPEAKER_00: So yes, there will be reboot instructions on hand. So there's also.

SPEAKER_04: Are you gonna be doing tech support on hand too?

SPEAKER_00: I hope not. I hope to have left sufficient instructions that competent people can keep it going. Otherwise there might be some downtime. But yeah, so there's that. There's also a big chunk which Jessica Angel, the creative director has taken the lead on. To do with some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other and light up different phases. And then there is also a centerpiece which is still in motion. So I won't talk about. But yeah, you know the hope is that a good chunk of those 20,000 people are gonna walk in and they're gonna experience a bit of Ethereum history really touching on those early days and people that they may have got no clue were around, and have a little bit of a flavor of what that year was like and get your hands on.

SPEAKER_04: And you're speaking on the main stage about it too. Right?

SPEAKER_00: So I am talking about early days of Ethereum as well. Yeah, that's on there's a stage that's like storytelling or culture. I can't remember quite what that was called. It's called like New France Stage I think. So, yeah, I'll be giving a little talk there though. Likely what I'll do is play some ancient videos for people's amusement. There are really fun stuff from the very early days that a lot of people again they won't have seen. I mean particularly that Toronto Bitcoin Expo. So that was in April 2014 and it was like the second time probably that most of the people on the team had met each other. You know some had met in Miami in the January and then some again met in that April. But at that point Ethereum was it was like a company. So Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event and they had a booth and they gave away hundreds or thousands of T-shirts and flyers. And so it was you know it was the Ethereum company for the one and only time that you ever had that. But with a new EF being engaged again they're not being the company but they are starting to have a presence at events again which I think is a very positive thing to see. You know that engagement, you know they're obviously never going to have an EF stand up token or what have you but having a presence at ETH Denver and ETHCC absolutely makes sense. So hopefully they'll have a good presence.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, no, I mean we're looking forward to see you speak Bob, but I remember like you were kind of planning the same or like also speaking about Ethereum early days at DevConnect, but then there was like all issues with the WiFi or something or the Internet. I remember. So I hope this time that the Internet is going to be good because I remember DevConnect. So many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything. Like it was super badly the Internet and you can say okay it's like Argentina but I mean come on like they should have at least decent Internet. Hopefully.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, yeah, it will not be a problem in Denver I can assure you that. You know they've been there a good chunk of time and they know what they're doing. But yeah, the WiFi in Argentina was dreadful.

SPEAKER_04: I mean we went to off site coffee shops for WiFi and you know so I don't think it was a general Argentina problem. It was definitely a problem.

SPEAKER_00: I think it was just like a capacity problem because there were so many people there. And I mean the problem specifically at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue like two or three hours before the event. It was an absolute rush job. But yeah, yeah I mean they.

SPEAKER_01: They did everything on the volunteers. I mean they had so many volunteers because of course like the most of the core organization of ETHPrivacy they were just traveling. I mean it was at the beginning of DevConnect so most of the people were just arriving and they said okay we're going to let it be run by volunteers to set up all. So yeah, maybe there was like an issue but I mean it was great. Just like I think you just unfortunately couldn't do your talk there. But yeah, hopefully to see in Denver would be amazing.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah I mean I that talk I will record, I will re-record with them at some point. That still hasn't happened. But yeah, I mean it was just a bit of a mess on the day but Denver's fine. I mean they've been planning it for forever. So yeah, what's happening with Book of Ethereum? How's things in your world?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean we're trying to manage the winter period of crypto as we speak. I mean it's crazy times actually. But we're doing our best. We're managing things just focusing on building the community. Really making time to invest in community building. I think it's super important. I see these months as a big chance to improve UX, improve onboarding strategies because I feel like that's something that we still miss. If I speak in general crypto, Ethereum specifically also. I mean because they always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on board but then you also need to do something about it. And I see like these times are pretty good to do it. I mean like there's slow volume days. Markets are terrible at the moment. So yeah it is what it is so we need to look at other things to do now. But