SPEAKER_00: Hello, Bob. How you doing?

SPEAKER_01: Hello. How are you, Ryan?

SPEAKER_00: I'm fantastic.

SPEAKER_01: man of mystery.

SPEAKER_00: Man of mystery. Hiding in public.

SPEAKER_01: The ghost.

SPEAKER_00: The ghost. I've been told that I should call my call sign... my handle should be Ghost at various points, because if I change my hair, then people don't recognize me.

SPEAKER_01: Right. So you need a new tag.

SPEAKER_00: Now that. Now that my ghostliness has been. has been revealed. It's you. It's true. I feel like I'm a Scooby Doo episode. I'm a bad Scooby Doo episode. It was Ryan Taylor all along. so we're here to talk. First, we'll talk about your project. And, we're here at Dark Prague just so to kind of give, an atmosphere to what. What's happening. This is quite a fascinating story, and this is a real meta happening there because, so we're in the ZK AV Club recording station, an experiment that I've created. The ZK AV Club is, it's a community that really helps communities to document ourselves, by deploying things like this recording station. It's inspired by Hackers Congress at Paraloni Polis, and something that I did similar in 2017 and 2018 with Matt in this very building. In this very building.

SPEAKER_01: In this very room.

SPEAKER_00: In 2018, it was in this very room, with mad bitcoins and world Crypto Network. And now we're at Dark Prague, at the Institute of Crypto Anarchy, now called Second Culture. And we made this arrangement to have the recording station here. And around the exact same time, I find out about Bob's website, the Early Days of Ethereum. And this website is documenting all of the early days, all the people that were involved, all the different projects, and the, stories, the messages, and all of this was happening. So let's start with, why don't you tell me a little bit about where you came up with the idea or how you got on board with Early Days of Ethereum. And, like, how did the project get started?

SPEAKER_01: so, I mean, my own, initial involvement with Ethereum started in early 2014. met guy in a pub who said, hey, have you ever heard of Bitcoin? And off we went down the rabbit hole. So, going to meetups and things in Vancouver. in June of that year, Vitalik was in town, spending a day with my friend, and he, brought him out for an evening dinner thing. So I got to meet Vitalik. So that was prior to the Ethereum Foundation. Even just before. And you know, long story short, I ended up working at the Ethereum Foundation in 2016, at Consensus Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, through 2016, 2017. In 2017, late 2017, Laura Shin contacted me and said, I hear Ming Chan has been fired as the executive director of the Ethereum Foundation. Do you know anything about it? And I said, no, “No, but it wouldn't surprise me. And anyway, shortly afterwards, I spoke to Vitalik, and, you know, offered my help with the transition, whatever was going to be next. And he asked me, he just said, well, maybe you can like, go and talk to everyone, talk to people in the community and try and work out what they would like the Ethereum Foundation to be. So at that point there wasn't really any canonical history.

SPEAKER_01: Like some of it was sort of, I guess an intentional cloud, or they'd just been like the drama with their founders. And I just didn't know. It was like, so how did she get hired? Like, what was happening beforehand? You know, that came about. And so I just started talking to everyone, both in terms of, you know, what they thought things should be, but also, well, when, you know, when did you get started, what were you doing? And so on. So talking to people primarily within that Ethereum Foundation context, but also in the broader community. So I spent, I don't know, three or four months, something like that, gathering this bunch of background information as part of these, like, interviews and conversations and really trying to synthesize all of that, help advise Vitalik. So I then put together these two blog posts. They were just WordPress things on my website, which was Ethereum Foundation People and Ethereum Foundation Timeline. And they were really kind of, you know, kind of secondary things out of this primary function, which was trying to advise Vitalik. And then, you know, the advice, what everyone wanted was, transparency, a voice for community, professional execution, various other things. Anyway, so none of that happened. So I kind of put this stuff to the side. It's like, “Okay, you know, right, I've got some historical pages, but whatever, I'm off doing other things.

SPEAKER_00: And what year was this?

SPEAKER_01: This was late 2017, early 2018. So those pages got published, I think, in kind of about March 2018 or a little later. But I'd been working... That's when I first announced them. I think I'd been working on them. I know I had been working on them in the prior months. Anyway, in 2023,

SPEAKER_01: the co-founders of BlockApps who did the Haskell client. They'd been working together for eight years at that point and they decided they should just have a little session where they all just talked about their memories of the early days, you know, because they'd been involved very, early. So Kieran James the CEO, Joe Lubin's son, worked out with him just recently. It was March 2014 when he first got involved. He was in Zug for the Red Wedding. so anyway, they did two like one hour, one and a half hour videos together, the three co-founders talking about all their early memories. And I've, known Victor and Kieren for nearly that long, and I just love the videos. It's like, oh, this is right, up my street. I just love the Ethereum history. And you know, because of that role I've had, I do know lots of early people and I've, I know a lot about this stuff. An unholy amount, I know. So I just love these videos. And I made some real copious notes, and I started gathering together photos and links to, you know, links to videos. And you know, it's like some of the things they said, or I could make some slight corrections, you know, I knew some of those details a bit better. or some of the things they were saying, I didn't know, you know, I haven't had, hadn't seen those particular parts. Anyway, through my geekiness there, they invited me on as a guest for the third one, which again, it was, it was 2000 and 2023.

SPEAKER_00: So at this point you're becoming sort of the Ethereum historian, kind of.

SPEAKER_01: And so that their two that they recorded were October 2023. The third one we did together was in November 2023.

SPEAKER_01: And then coming into 2025, 2024 it ended up that I started working with them. So we're colleagues now, and we were doing a, fairly regular Twitter spaces. But just with the timing of the product that we're working on, it's like a pending release, but we kind of, we're not really ready to talk about the product yet because it's not quite ready. And we were just, what are we going to talk about this week? And it's like, oh, you know, we, maybe we could do and do another of those, you know, because we'd only talked up to about 2017. It's just like there's loads still to go. But I, I thought, well, maybe we get a guest, you know. So I spoke to Taylor Goering, you know, and Taylor was involved from December 2013. He was one of the first directors of the Ethereum Foundation. He was, you know, he wasn't an Ethereum co-founder, he wasn't in the glorious aid, eight, but he was a co-founder of the Ethereum Foundation. So, you know, we did an hour chat with him and that was great. And so afterwards I was like, oh, I guess I need to make like the notes for this one as well. And then I'm like, am I going to put those on my website as well? Am I going to do the same? same?” And then it was like, no, I shouldn't really. And I'd always said with those initial ones, you know, at some point I'll pull them out of WordPress and I'll make a GitHub project so that other people can help and contribute. But I'd never done it. So it's like,

SPEAKER_01: I should move that stuff into GitHub. GitHub.” And then, you know, I made another like markdown file with notes for this. But then it's like, that looks a bit lame. lame.” And I'm like, coding, AI coding tools are great. So I'm like, hey AI, can you make me a website from this? And it looked pretty good. And so this was August of this year that I went from nothing to, well, if I combine my earlier like people and timeline things with these newer, interviews, like that fits together into a cohesive kind of whole. And Early Days of Ethereum was the name that the other guys chose for their little videos. And then it's like, that's a good name for the whole. And then, you know, I just started iterating and using, Klein in Visual Studio Code. all of a sudden, you know, you can do web development stuff so easy now. You know, it's honestly like a 50x or 100x faster. It's just like, And I've been able to just iterate so fast. And then we had a second interview, with texture Anthony D'Onofrio, Onofrio, who was the first like Ethereum community guy. So that happened. And then I'm making copious notes on that. And then the run up to the interview, I'm like just dropping stuff in Twitter as I'm finding things. You know, I'm kind of like preparing a profile for him ahead of the interview. And you know, and it's just like got a life of its own. And And then in terms of you. So I had first seen your name back in 2017 or maybe 2018. Because one of the things I was looking at there is looking at the Internet Archive snapshots of the websites through those early, months. And, you know, you were there, but I think it just said, Ryan Taylor, Dev, Web Dev, or something like that.

SPEAKER_00: Something along those lines.

SPEAKER_01: No photo, common name. You know, you were there for a bit and then you weren't listed, like, because team members were listed early on, but then they stopped being listed maybe as early as April or so.

SPEAKER_00: it was the spring. That spring.

SPEAKER_01: So, I don't know. I never knew who you were even or what you'd done or anything until you saw what I was doing and then reached out to me. and it's like, hey, it's me. I didn't know I was being so elusive.

SPEAKER_00: So the website, is. The domain is early daysofeth earlydaysofeth—Early Early Days of ETH.

SPEAKER_01: So, early daysofeath.org earlydaysofeth.org. cool.

SPEAKER_00: Definitely, recommend that people check it out. The GitHub that you were talking about earlier, it was just like a markdown thing with some names and dates. Well, or was that someone else that was working on that?

SPEAKER_01: No, well, all of my earlier stuff was just on my WordPress. It was my own personal WordPress site. I made the Early Days of Ethereum like GitHub of just like, hey, AI, pull this WordPress page into a markdown file, please. Thank you. you.” And it was like, there you go. You know, you can kind of look at the GitHub view of WordPress of a markdown file, and it's, you know, it's kind of But. it was an export of, my existing WordPress just. to get them into GitHub so that people could, you know, other people could see there, could log issues, could do. pull requests. But then, very rapidly from there, I'm like, well, let's make it into a static HTML website. And then, gone from there. So. And, Amazing.

SPEAKER_00: It's really cool that you were able to do this project and, like, with no web development experience, like, web development is a dead career at this point.

SPEAKER_01: It really is.

SPEAKER_00: It's the second career of mine that I used to be a DVD be author. DVD author. I’ve I've had two careers in a rather short path, that no longer exists. And I'm grateful for it. I think web development is a very powerful tool, and the fact that machines can do it now and help people come up with exactly what they want.

SPEAKER_01: Because you can go so fast. like, I, you know, in my Prior role at the ETC Cooperative. over about two years or 18 months maybe, we did three major website projects. It was like, right, we're going to completely revamp our own website. website.” Then we were doing the Proof of Work Summit. So it's like, right, we're going to do a conference website. And then the third one was like, right, we've got a grants program, and we're gonna like have a thing and people can like register, you know, hey, I'm applying. And then showing a list of the applications and all this. But those three projects, I found a really competent kind of like, web developer. We had a not competent one at the start, and it was dreadful. But you know, found this guy on Upwork, you know, he wasn't cheap, but he was good. But we spent like 100k probably on those three sites, you know, over a number of, you know, over two years or whatever. and he's a competent guy. But found this found this guy on Upwork, you know, he wasn't cheap, but he was good. But we spent like 100k probably on those three sites, you know, over a number of, you know, over two years or whatever. and he's a competent guy. But each of these, you know, that they were taking months to like get to the end. You know, you do, you know, every week you're reviewing. All right, And can you maybe change this? Can you change that? shit takes 10 minutes now.

SPEAKER_00: And then like there used to be cross browser testing and all of this. And that's all taken into account.

SPEAKER_01: just, hey, crap it all out, please.

SPEAKER_00: Mhm.

SPEAKER_01: Write, please do this. And write copious notes on how it all works. And you know, for these... Oh, can you, know, like move the styling, I don't want the blue there. Please remove the spaces here. But, oh, here's a, here's an image. Can you just like, here's a snapshot of another site, like for my own site. Right, cloning yours. So the visual look of it right now is cloned from the website that you built in March 2014. And it's like, right, you know, hey, point a URL to the Internet Archive. snapshot of that. please use all the same fonts, the same style colors and it just does it.

SPEAKER_00: I had no idea when I was writing that code. It never would have occurred to me that a machine would be copying it for anyone else in such a simple way. And now, if you go to the Zkav Club website, it's funny because it's just a markdown file. Because I'm a retired web dev, I did not want to make a new website. And so I'm doing the opposite: of. you. went from a website to GitHub, huh? Using the AI and then from GitHub of markdown into back into a website. So we're starting with the GitHub with, just markdown. And then I have an idea of how anyone can vibe code the site into something different and we can have the design change on a really weekly monthly basis or something like that. The way you're talking about it, it's crazy easy. I didn't know you could just point it to Internet Archive.

SPEAKER_01: Totally. Just like, hey, make me a new Jekyll static HTML project. Please define GitHub Actions to automatically deploy it to GitHub Pages. Add this, add the other. You know, just commit it. And it's just pushing, right? It's pushing live. There you go. I didn't know any of that.

SPEAKER_00: That's amazing. Like, this is definitely the future of web development and, that career is toast. I heard that development companies are like spending a lot of time and money in fixing the code that the AI is coming up with. But if you're going for something usable and something clean, or something that looks like an old site. Then it's, really just out of the box.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, the other thing there, I mean, I have been a programmer since 1984. You know, I'm not like a technically incompetent person, but just saying, to do it, like, I'm not doing it myself, like, there's no way. It's like you're a thousand times better than me. And, I mean, the other thing with that kind of stuff is you're not even, you know, I'm not quite vibe coding, but it's like I don't care about redundancy or anything. Like, you know, you're not worrying about, well, how, you know, how maintainable is this? you know, have we got the styles factored out so that they can, you know, we can make new pages? Just, make it like this. Hey, is there any commonality? Pull all the commonality out into some, you know, CSS files. please. Don't, have styling in here. Please look at all of the things and factor out any common parts and add details, on what all of these are. And just... I mean, the one step that I'd like to have and it will happen really soon is I want a voice to text thing. So I'm just telling it, right. I don't even want to type. Just, do this, please. Computer. Like, we're so close to that.

SPEAKER_00: ChatGPT does a bit of this. I think it's in mostly in the app. I recently saw a video. It was shared by a colleague behind the camera here. That was it was a person asking ChatGPT with his voice to guess the weight of different objects, and then would put the object on the scale.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And ChatGPT was like apologizing, oh, sorry, I didn't know the object was full of something. I don't know how much oil is in the can. And different things like this very apologetic and you know, like this meaty little thing that it is. And the person who's doing it kind of jokingly gets angry. and it's like, no, you're wrong, I need to punish you. Now I'm going to put you in the fridge, talk to the milk. And he puts the phone in the fridge with the camera on, and you can hear ChatGPT talking. Oh, hi, Milk. How are you doing? Have you seen the mayonnaise? mayonnaise?” So like this stuff is really coming up with a mind of its own, but it's a mind that it's a mindless mind that we can control. and in order to have it do things like make websites, that's it.

SPEAKER_01: So I mean, you know, then what I've been able to do is really focus on the content of, you know, looking to build profiles up for you know, everyone who was involved in the pre Ethereum Foundation days up to July 2014. I mean the original scope because of that purpose was Ethereum Foundation to that point. And then those pre, like the scope is kind of like moving around a little bit because you know, lots of people were doing Ethereum things but maybe not quite that far back, but, you know, they were doing important things a little later. But, what I'm really aiming to capture is you know, profiles I've entered, identified 180 people so far.

SPEAKER_00: 180 people who have touched Ethereum. The, main project. Like you're not looking at the, at the other projects that come out of it. Polygon, Polkadot, none of the layer 2 stuff or the clones.

SPEAKER_01: No apps even, just. into apps, No apps even, just the platform, just...

SPEAKER_00: The protocol and the people, really not, the wallets and all of this. You're not getting into that? Just the people?

SPEAKER_01: No. So I don't really have any details on particular projects. It really is just, well, who built Ethereum? So that's 180 people. Amazing spanning pre, EF days, and then EF up to the end of Ming Chan, in January, 2018. But I mean the thing that's been amazing is I just keep finding more and more people, more and more stuff. You know, there is so much out there and talking about the AI, the other thing that's massively easier now, you know, you can just ask the LLM, hey, for this person, please go and find all details and all references and send me links and find me photos and you know, all references to this person. When was the first time? So back there, 2017, 2018. It was really just because I'd got those personal connections that I could go and talk to, you know, these main people.

SPEAKER_00: Right. You do have a lot of connections. Impressed. And you said you were with Ethereum Foundation, so it makes sense you were involved that, early you were going to the events. You also mentioned your proof of work summit. like in person events is where you get to meet all the people and talk to them, get FaceTime with them.

SPEAKER_01: And I mean back in 2014, 2015, 2016, it was so much smaller, you know that it was, if you were active, you could kind of get to know most of the people. Right. You, know, like the Reddit was probably only, you know, 100, 200, 300 people, you know, anyone doing everything, you know, they're there and you're all just like talking every day and doing stuff. So, but, back then it was manual slow work together that information, and people who weren't, you know, like main characters, characters—especially especially if they'd already left, you know, I didn't really have a lot of information on them, you know, well, hey, I've got some names. you know, at some point there were maybe some photos but, not a lot. But now: it's, don’t you know, don't think you're going to have any anonymity. Right. If your stuff is trailed all over the Internet, it's trivial for the LLMs to gather all of that stuff together.

SPEAKER_00: Mhm.

SPEAKER_01: So really what I'm doing it, you know, it's more aggregating exiting information. It's not like I'm feeling, finding secret things, particularly. It's more, that stuff is just very discoverable now. So what I'm making, it's almost, you know, it's almost sort of like a wiki I guess. And it's like profiles and articles and videos, kind of all cross linking.

SPEAKER_00: But there's real value in this. and I think this is like, this is where research is going, this is where every industry is going, into AI and how AI can be used as a tool to help to do the interesting stuff and then go and do the research.

SPEAKER_01: go and do the research. It's kind of like, hey, you've got a super smart Internet. Can you go and like research this and report back? apart from that, report backs in like 10 seconds.

SPEAKER_00: just fact checking to do.

SPEAKER_01: Right. Thanks for the great links. Now I'll go and follow them. And I mean, it's obviously not perfect. Like, one of the things is I found, I found a guy who'd interviewed Vitalik really early in 2014, and then found out, oh, he wrote the forward foreword to Proof of Stake, which is, Vitalik's most recent book. So it's like a collection of articles and blog posts and things from Vitalik. You know, it's kind of an academic kind of guy curating that. So it's, you know, the writings of Vitalik with commentary and context.

SPEAKER_00: Very cool.

SPEAKER_01: And so I was trying to find, well, where are these old things? And you know, and I got this list of things and one of them was like, oh, this was just on some academic site that was maybe paywalled. And I was going in and I couldn't find it, couldn't work it out. But then I just like, I'm just gonna mail this guy. You know, hey, so, and so I see this, I'm trying to find this reference, but I couldn't find it. You know, was out. But then I just like, I'm just gonna mail this guy. You it deleted? so, and so I see this, I'm trying to find this reference, but I couldn't find it, Is it not publicly available? available?” And it's like: it was a hallucination. The guy's like, I think you've been talking to a chat bot. That's a reasonable sounding article with a reasonable looking URL. But it's a hallucination. hallucination.”

SPEAKER_00: Wow, that's a deep hallucination. fascinating. That's really cool. So like, you, mentioned like almost 200 people who were involved, and a, lot of us have just kind of like gone off and done our own thing. And a lot of them might have common names. not the case with me. So if you ask an AI about Ryan Taylor, then it's going to have a difficult time just determining distinguishing the differences.

SPEAKER_01: But I mean, so I guess so. I did a talk here at Dark Prague yesterday which was titled A Social History. And the framing, I mean beyond just presenting the website and know, finding some old good videos to share, was the framing of that was you know, great man theory, which is a very common form of history, started in the 19th century as this, kind of proposition. That history is formed by these heroes, these great men, who are, you know, through power of character and superior intellect and skills and talents, you know, shape the world with their actions. And, you know, and that's the sort of stuff humans like is, you know, you want your heroes and your leaders, your main characters that you're cheering for and everything. And, you know, and that's obviously happens within Ethereum. so it's like, right, you know, your great man theory is, oh, Vitalik, the boy genius, you know, invented and created everything, and he was only 19. And, you know, other main characters, you know, well, like, you know, Satoshi, Amazing Satoshi and Vitalik, and then, you know, Charles and Gav and everyone.

SPEAKER_01: But it's not really true, right? It's a simple way of presenting narratives and stories. But, another,

SPEAKER_01: way of looking at things is called social history, also known as, like, history from below, below,” which is really, you know, telling the story of the normal people, and really pointing out that something like Ethereum, it's the work of many hands. It wasn't just like Vitalik just like, did it on his own. That's true. And. sure enough, you know, when I've gathered this information from the very earliest days, there were lots and lots of people doing things. And so, you know, Vitalik did the white paper in November 2013, and, you know, maybe a few people he was talking to, and then he released that. Then through December, you know, a bunch of people, you know, came in and got involved in January, tons more people. And, you know, within a very short period of time, you know, you've got 30 or 40 people actively doing stuff, up to, the crowd sale. So, you know, people who contributed to work on Ethereum. Prior to the crowd sale, there was an allocation, right? You'd got 9.9% was reserved for the Ethereum Foundation, 9.9% for early contributors. And that was done, you know, in a very kind of equitable way. You know, if you've done, if you were working full time, that's a full allocation, right? It doesn't matter who you were, what you're doing, or anything. But, you know, if you were there and you spent your time there, you go, you get, you know, you get that funding. And I think there were 80 or 100 people within that group over that period. SPEAKER_

SPEAKER_00: making, quite a bit of sacrifice because there was no guarantee of pay, there was no guarantee that it would work. Vitalik had the benefit of writing for Bitcoin Magazine. He was writing, I think, like 80% of the stuff that was coming out, especially in the print magazine. So when he started to approach people about Ethereum, they, people listened, and that's got that credibility. There was this big wave right at the beginning, and then the anticipation of the website with the countdown and this sort of sunrise image coming up. and people were excited because Bitcoin was starting to move. I mean, Bitcoin was right around the hundred mark, I think if there.

SPEAKER_01: But so the reality is that Ethereum, as many other projects, as is the work of many hands, and many of those people are forgotten. You know, maybe their roles were, you know, not very public facing. you know, well, like, yourself,

SPEAKER_01: you know thousands, tens of thousands of people saw the websites that you built. No idea who you were. I didn't either. You know, despite my closeness in the ecosystem for all these years, I don't know who Ryan Taylor is.

SPEAKER_00: And this goes for anyone who makes websites, right. A lot of times like generally it's looked at as something that like some agency was farmed out to do, it or who knows, people put, such a halo on Vitalik that they may have thought that he did the website. and that the, website that made, Early Days of Ethereum. this is so great that it's bringing all of this forward to show, like hey, all of these other people were involved. involved.” Where are they now? What did they put, what did they put into the project? and that's how I ended up finding you, was because of the website. So I think you followed me on X. And then after years of looking for me and then I went and I was like, Early Days of And I click on it and a picture of the website that I built, and some dates. that no just Ryan Taylor I think at this time. And then it said 2014 to question mark. and I just reached out to give you a little bit of extra info, and now here we are.

SPEAKER_01: Right, absolutely.

SPEAKER_01: And so in my talk yesterday there are a couple of other people that I mentioned on that thread. So there was a guy called Kyle Kabegovich Kurbegovic who

SPEAKER_01: had a thing called cointalk. So Cointalk was one of the first blockchain shows. So he was based out of Toronto. he worked out of Bitcoin Decentral, Anthony Di Iorio's co-working space where Vitalik also worked.

SPEAKER_01: So he was like the media dude, he was the guy with the video camera and was doing, you know, these shows. So they were recorded, no videoed, and released, both as audio streams and videos, and kind of like blog posts. But the blogs were just like wrapping the video content with a little description. They weren't like, long. But he did that between December 2013, March 2014, very actively. Like, I think he did like, one post in the May and one, like, later in the year. But, but had like, you know, just this. Just this, little period where he was doing stuff and then, you know, Cointalk stopped, and, you know, the website lapsed. His Vimeo channel, like, went away. The YouTube one ended, and, you know, completely forgotten. But what I found was, as I was digging into a lot of these early videos, you know, there's a number of videos that were done in January, February. So, probably the best known of those is Vitalik presenting at Bitcoin Miami. You know, like, hey, here's the first Ethereum talk that he was giving. And then he's out of the room and there's people swarming around him. It's like, you know, wow, this new project. But that. And then there was a theory. There was one called Introducing Ethereum Ethereum” that was done in early February. And then there was this fantastic one called Ethereum Your Turn, that was in March, with a, Charles Hoskinson voiceover. And then there was, like, Bitcoin Expo in April of 2014. Some of these videos I'd seen, they were still around. I didn't know that they were from him. Like, when I went back in and looked at all of this stuff, it's like, oh, these things got released on his channel first. If you look at the early websites, he was listed as, you know, media Cointalk, you know, like, partner or whatever. Right. Because he was part of Bitcoin Decentral. And Anthony Di Iorio just, you know, bring in Kyle. Right, he's doing, you know, hey, he's here. Well, report on this Ethereum stuff. stuff.” And, and looking at some of those videos. So Ian Meikle and Richard Stott, who were like the graphic designers who did a lot of the very famous kind of like, you know, background screen, screen—the like the geographical stuff, like, I think, you know, the geometric pattern that you had on that.

SPEAKER_00: Right,

SPEAKER_01: With the diamond, kind of crystalline. So that. was them. And I kind of assumed all of these early videos were from them as well. But you look at them, they're too early. They were before those guys were around. And I don't know. But I think Kyle did these.

SPEAKER_00: Quite likely.

SPEAKER_01: But again, you know, Kyle's a ghost, all that. You know, I think he sort of did that and then he's like, I'm out of here. Sell my crypto, go and do whatever he's doing. I think there is an IMDb entry for him doing some. some… But, you know, he's another guy. I really want to get in contact with him. And, you know, there's so many of these things where, you know, people had these active roles, did stuff, and, you know, and then they're forgotten. Either just forgotten, or there was some erasure as well. Is The initial, Bitcoin Talk article was January 23rd, 23, 2014 of 2014. But they changed it about 8 or M. months later. It got dirty edited and a whole bunch of people got written out.

SPEAKER_00: Wow.

SPEAKER_01: And I think that was after the Red Wedding. And it's like, right, Charles and Amir aren't here, we're gonna like, change the primary people. And it also, on the earlier one, said, here's our fiduciary team. And it's probably, oh, we probably shouldn't be saying fiduciary team. We're gonna.

SPEAKER_00: But.

SPEAKER_01: But the other thing is all the rest of the team just got wiped.

SPEAKER_00: Wow. So, like, there's...

SPEAKER_01: Including you.

SPEAKER_00: Including me. I'm quite all right with that. And here we are having a chance to clear the air a little bit. so the videos that you're talking about are on your website. If someone wants to see these amazing videos, everything, they're on the website.

SPEAKER_01: That's right.

SPEAKER_00: And Kyle was working with. Diorio and brought a lot of people in. that was early 2014. You can see the name start to pile in. And a lot of that was coming from Anthony Di Iorio.

SPEAKER_01: absolutely. Well, because the other thing as well, there's a video there which is the opening night of Decentral of Bitcoin. Decentral. So that was January 1, 2014, on a snowy day. You can see it was all snowy outside in Toronto. And that was like, you know, opening this, you know, co-working space. And these teams are, you know, based here. Which was like CryptoKit, Cointalk, Ethereum with a weird text. It's like there was no logo or whatever. It's just very strange plain font. But also, Bitcoin Alliance of Canada, and saying, oh, and we're also hosting Bitcoin Expo coming up. In, April of that year. But the thought there was. Ethereum is going to be built out of Toronto.

SPEAKER_00: Right? I can see how people could come to that conclusion, because it was...

SPEAKER_01: Like he, you know, he started it and Ethereum, you know. Well, so Vitalik, you know, Vitalik was there also on that video. It's really, short. But that's when Joe Lubin first, that day is when Joe Lubin first met Vitalik. and Anthony Anthony… and you know, I saw, you know, Vitalik's obviously in that video at some point. They're talking through, and all. There's Vitalik in the corner. But I was looking and there's a frame where you can see Joe Lubin as well. And that was Joe's first day.

SPEAKER_00: Wow. So this was all early 2014, January 1st. and now you've mentioned this time frame several times, and it's a time frame that resonates with me. December 2013 until like late spring. early summer of 2014. And things started to change quite a bit, which is why I was like, I'm gonna do my own thing. Kind of stepped back. I wanted to focus more on my live streaming and went on to live stream a lot of Ethereum presentations and talks.

SPEAKER_01: So tell you what, we've missed a bit which is talking about how you yourself got involved.

SPEAKER_00: we can do that. we can do that for sure. We can turn the tables. So, where do we begin?

SPEAKER_01: Well, how did you end up doing the website for Ethereum? What preceded that?

SPEAKER_00: Right, so Bitcoin Magazine preceded that. I was the webmaster of Bitcoin Magazine, doing everything from web development to. It was a WordPress website. So I was handling all of the contributors. We had like 30 to 50 contributors at some point. Everyone who's writing was required to come up with their own images and things. And I was the one who was telling them, like, that this is the case. see about getting you some stock images or something. So I was working with all of the contributors. My introduction to Mihai and Vitalik was in late 2011. And I got an email from a guy in Romania called Mihai Alisie saying, hey, I saw your articles on dailyanarchist.com. dailyanarchist.com.” I had written some questions, articles about full disk encryption and DEFCON. or DEFCON with an F. And I get this email from Mihai saying, hey, I'm starting this new thing called Bitcoin Magazine. I would like for you to write for us. I think I responded with a, haha, really funny because I thought I was being trolled by my friends. It just seemed so out of the blue. And Mihai's like he and I became really good friends through the course of the next two years, from 2014 or 2012 until 2014. So we were in Skype calls all the time. I was in the Skype channels for Bitcoin Magazine including like Amir Taaki and Trace Mayer and Vitalik. I spent one Christmas on Skype call with Vitalik and Mihai trying to launch the new Bitcoin Magazine website.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So it was a very close. Bitcoin Magazine was a very small team, and we all were working very closely together. So when the idea for Ethereum came around, they came to me to ask, hey, can you spin up a website for, this new thing that Vitalik is working on? It's going to be the next Bitcoin. It's going to be bigger than Bitcoin. Vitalik's the next Satoshi. This was kind of the messaging. So I signed on because I wanted to help my friends. Like there was no guarantee of pay, there was no guarantee the thing would ever launch. And I was asked to put up a countdown on the page, and I was thinking, it's like what's the countdown to? And we didn't really know. It was just like, something big is going to happen, you know, and they were going to do a crowd sale. That the first ICO ever.

SPEAKER_01: First of February.

SPEAKER_00: And there was no concept of how it was going to work. so on the 1st of February I get a call at 3 in the morning the morning in California, and I'm sick as a dog. And I'm thinking, Mihai never called me. Like he would usually send me messages, or we would talk on Skype. But my phone is ringing, I'm getting alerts from all directions, and I wake up and I'm like, what the hell is going on? And he's like, get rid of the countdown. Just get rid of it. So that was, that was the very first website that had this countdown with the purple sunrise. And then we started announcing what Ethereum was, like looking like at that point. Di Iorio started bringing a lot of people, more people into the team.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: Taylor Gerring was doing a lot of, he was passing me a lot of the, a lot of the designs and things. And we And we came up with the different websites that you can now look at on Internet Archive, including... And

SPEAKER_01: And with Texture as well, I guess.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, Texture was very involved in the designs. I think at the beginning I was working very closely with, Mihaly more just as like friends moving forward and then Texture and Taylor Gearing Gerring. and we had moved it to a GitHub site. I originally told you that it was a WordPress site because, Bitcoin Magazine was all WordPress. But then when we were looking at the code recently, I started having flashbacks, and I can totally see, my fingerprints all over as a hard coded site. I had been a web developer at...

SPEAKER_01: That point for straight HTML. Handwritten HTML.

SPEAKER_00: I prided myself on my CSS skills. And I remember a conversation with Vitalik about wanting to get one of the, one of the opening screen needed to like take up the entire height of the display that the person was looking at it on.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And CSS3 wasn't there yet. So I remember telling Vitalik, like, you do it.” And he’s like, can't do it. And he's like, what do you mean you can't do it? I'm like, this isn't C, man. This is CSS. We're just not there.

SPEAKER_01: Though funnily enough, having it in that raw form made it easier for the archive to happen. Because you haven't got, you know, with WordPress you might have dynamically generated elements, and then the archive is just doing a snapshot of like the output of those. But you've kind of lost, you know, it's kind of the structure kind of gets lost in there. But if you just got straight HTML, it's like, copy the file locally, done. That's the archive.

SPEAKER_00: definitely. And it was a single page. So this decision, on my side would have just been made based on that fact, Like, we're doing a single page. Why bring WordPress in? Why get WordPress involved? I'm working with these amazing, technologists and computer scientists, and I'm thinking, like, I don't want to be responsible for this thing not being, like, backwards.

SPEAKER_01: And then also, you know. You didn't have any dynamic elements. Right. It wasn't like, oh, there's some list of pages, you know, or here's a list of whatever, you know, you didn't have any, like database backing needs anything. Right. Straight static content.

SPEAKER_00: Just static content. It was responsive. We had responsive design at that point. So I was able to code it up real nice and clean. and I never considered myself to be a very good developer, but I had made hundreds of websites, could make it work. Just write it by hand and then go in. And at the beginning I was the only person with the keys to the server and access to the code. This is when I was getting a call at 3:00 in the morning.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: From the team in Zug. And Mihai had offered, I think before that they wanted to fly me out to Zug.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And I told them no, Like, I'm not ready to leave my life here behind. And I didn't really know what was going on. Like I said, things started getting a little weird. and my, I had some alarms going off that was like they're not paying you. there's like some miscommunications happening. there seems like there's some shady stuff happening.

SPEAKER_01: But some power, battles going on.

SPEAKER_00: And I just don't have the patience for any of that. I never did. And at the same time like I have to pay my bills. And I was really excited about live streaming. And I started live streaming around the same time that I discovered Bitcoin. It was around 2011.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And I got into live streaming, for decentralized and like peer to peer tech stuff in 2014. So this was like, it was summer of 2014. I started live streaming. the San Francisco Bitcoin meetup.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And that was, I was trying to push that on Bitcoin Magazine. I was like, the future is live streaming. Go to the conferences. Bitcoin Magazine can produce the live streams of these first conferences. And no one had any interest in it.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So I met up with Paige Peterson and we started. And I started livestreaming the meetup that she was an organizer of at that point.

SPEAKER_01: Oh

SPEAKER_00: And this, just took all of my time. It took, my curiosity had gone to live streaming. Bitcoin was doing its thing. Ethereum was like, is it even going to launch ever? And then I was also working on the Decentralized Library of Alexandria, which is like one of the first real, like decentralized media platforms. It may be the first.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: Where we had the media being stored first on BitTorrent. And then we found out about IPFS. Met with Juan Bennett very early on while he was still at Y Combinator, and we integrated IPFS into it.

SPEAKER_01: I mean IPFS was made a long time ago now. That was probably 2013.

SPEAKER_00: This was, this was the end of 2013.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So it was around the same time. So I'm very well aware of what Ethereum is doing and where it stands at this point. And then it may have. I think it was in 2014 when I met Juan. And IPFS seemed to tick all the boxes. So we made this, decentralized media platform where we were writing clear text data to a blockchain that allowed for transaction, comments. It had a memo field. It's called Florincoin. It was already launched. There was no pre mine. The whole thing was totally above the board and open source. So we took advantage of this clear text comment field that you could put into any transaction and we put searchable data in there. So authors or creator's name, title of the video, description, all the stuff you search YouTube for. And then a link to either the BitTorrent magnet or the IPFS content ID.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And then I coded up the whole front end for this. And it, and it was working pretty well. And we had people asking constantly, why aren't you using Ethereum to do this? Do you know about Ethereum? And my colleagues are looking at me going, are they seriously asking you if you know about Ethereum? Ethereum?” And I'm like, wait, I've got this. And you just respond like, we don't know if it's going to launch. And then people started asking us about Filecoin in the same sense. And we're like, it's the same thing. Like we're using what's working, we're using what's open source and already exists. exists.” We had LBRY, sprung up at the same time. Shortly after, inspired by our project. price. They had a massive pre mine. We were warning them the whole time. The SEC is going to come down hard on you. should be working.

SPEAKER_01: They were one of the teams that did get whacked, wasn't they?

SPEAKER_00: it was just this last year. They went down hard. And they were, they were warned and. it just sucks. It sucks for them. It sucks for. Because they did a much, they were much more successful at the marketing. They got Odyssey going. They had other front ends.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So, like props to them for doing all of this great work and getting out into the people's hands, into the user's hands. But that's where my attention was instead of focusing on Ethereum.

SPEAKER_01: It's funny to think of the however many thousand scam projects that it's them that got whacked.

SPEAKER_00: It was this massive pre mine that they did.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And they said it's like, to help to get users on board. They at one point someone. It was a few years later, I got a message because my live streaming channel, Agileak, I was going around and I was live streaming decentralized tech meetups. Anything I could find. Everything from like Redecentralized, we were here at HCPP, the all the blockchain meetup in Berlin, all these different things. And so someone at LBRY, who didn't know about my history with LBRY, sent me a message and said, hey, can we... It would be really cool to like, scrape your channel and put it onto lbry and we'll give you all these tokens and everything. And I would not touch their money. I was thinking, like, you understand like 90% of what of all of the LBRY token that will ever exist is in your founder's hands.

SPEAKER_01: Right?

SPEAKER_00: Like, this is going to be a disaster.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: And you have to be so careful working in this space.

SPEAKER_01: mentioning Filecoin. So the first white paper for Filecoin was 2014. But then nothing happened with it for years.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: And second white paper. And so, you know, these things take a while. The other one I saw, which is funny is: you remember MaidSafe. safe.

SPEAKER_00: Big fan.

SPEAKER_01: So, you know, MaidSafe again. One of these earliest sort of storage, decentralized storage thing. It's like massive array of of…” something. Massive array, Internet disks, Internet disk, something like that. Anyway, that project started in 2006. David Irving, David Irvine in Scotland somewhere. And then they did one of the first ICOs. So made safe coin. Mastercoin.

SPEAKER_00: coin.

SPEAKER_01: So I think Mastercoin was maybe the first, and then they were the second.

SPEAKER_00: Again, they did it on Mastercoin.

SPEAKER_01: It was on Mastercoin and Bitcoin. I think it was on both. which is what Ethereum were talking about doing both, but only did Bitcoin in the end anyway. So they did made MaidSafeCoin Coin in, I think again, this is like November 2023, 2013. Sorry. Anyway, they just launched.

SPEAKER_00: They did.

SPEAKER_01: They just launched. It took like 18 years. They kept changing things, but really sadly they went and rebranded right at the last minute. So they're called like Autonomy or something really generic. You know, some tech fintech kind of sounding interesting thing. But they did launch. So Jake Newcomb... style.

SPEAKER_00: Duke Nukem Forever. I definitely, like, I do wish that they would have kept the same name, because then it would be this redemption arc.

SPEAKER_01: Absolutely. It's like you've got all that history and everyone knows your name.

SPEAKER_00: But anyway, that's MaidSafe. Was something I was paying really close attention to at the time.

SPEAKER_01: Me too, me too.

SPEAKER_00: And I live streamed some of the presentations about it.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I was really hoping for that. For that to happen. it was, it went beyond decentralized storage. They were also working on decentralized compute.

SPEAKER_01: they did add that later, didn't they? The both of them? Initially, it was just storage and whatever proof of, proof-of-content proof of content or whatever sort of thing.

SPEAKER_00: what Filecoin calls, what they have their proof of time space.

SPEAKER_01: Right?

SPEAKER_00: So Filecoin, this was the thing that, with Alexandria, we were trying to address the issue of like, incentives. Well, of, impermanence of data. Like, because we had BitTorrent. And, BitTorrent's an amazing technology, but anyone who's ever used it to download anything knows the pain of getting it to 99%. And then there's no seeds, and everyone else is sitting there staring at this damn progress bar.

SPEAKER_01: No, I mean, if you're looking to, like, pirate the latest Hollywood movie, you know, you're probably gonna be If you want to. If you want to store your holiday photos, that ain't gonna happen.

SPEAKER_00: So we were trying to figure out the persistency issue that BitTorrent had, and IPFS has it too. so there's things. There's ways that this can be solved. LBRY came up with a new role in the network. You can pay someone to pin the file. filecoin does this as well, and they have services that will do this and host the files for you. And it's pretty cheap storage. with a J. They're also doing the same thing.

SPEAKER_01: Sean Wilkinson.

SPEAKER_00: but. Filecoin was just not. there yet.

SPEAKER_01: No, it's just theorized.

SPEAKER_00: Then you also looking for a blockchain to deploy on.

SPEAKER_01: And you had Ethereum Swarm as well, right?

SPEAKER_00: Swarm is still up and active.

SPEAKER_01: So you know, that you were meant to have this sort of, you know, three protocol web three thing was Ethereum, you know, decentralized source of compute and database. Decentralized storage was Swarm; and then decentralized messaging, Whisper. The thought that all of these could fit together. Right. Your web front end for a dApp could be in Swarm. But then you've got to incentivize people for that. storage. Oh. But you've got the crypto so ETH can be used, and then you can use the smart contracts for implementing the incentives logic on all of that.

SPEAKER_00: Mhm.

SPEAKER_01: But storage is, I mean there's lots of newer projects as well.

SPEAKER_00: it's really where the decentralized storage is a really important thing that we need to get to. This is how we get away from using AWS.

SPEAKER_01: Well. And the web front ends. Right.

SPEAKER_01: You know, here you go. You've got immutable smart contracts perhaps for your functionality, like Tornado cache. But then someone's running a website, and a single person owns the website, and that's where you're going to get whacked. Same with the fiat on ramps on the crypto side: is if you've got these centralized servers that one person is running, well, that's what's going to get taken down.

SPEAKER_00: Or the person maintaining it is just going to stop.

SPEAKER_01: Right. So that's another thing is whoever loses interest, company goes bust.

SPEAKER_01: Oh shit.

SPEAKER_00: There goes history.

SPEAKER_01: But we still haven't quite got to that full stack everything decentralized kind of, kind of vision.

SPEAKER_00: Unfortunately that is the case. Internet Archive is working on a decentralized I think 10% or something along those lines.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: is being, they're using filecoin to back up all of their stuff and decentralize it. I will have an interview with the lead of decentralization at Internet Archive coming up here in the next like month or so.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I do a lot of work with Internet Archive now.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: Community that they've created.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, the, snapshots they've had of a lot of this Ethereum stuff is, where a lot of what I'm doing has come from. is you know, shit that went down and died but you know, some proportion of it did get archived, and you can, you can get back to that.

SPEAKER_00: I use Internet Archive as like my resume.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I have a couple of pages. The Bitcoin Magazine about page and the Ethereum page.

SPEAKER_01: There you go.

SPEAKER_00: So that if anyone asks, like what else have you done?

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I can send them these.

SPEAKER_01: Right. And it's not like, hey, point to Bitcoin magazine.com and then it's like, mhm, it's a completely different thing now. And you, like, I worked on the old one.

SPEAKER_00: I was the last person to from the old team. I was the last person to be involved in Bitcoin Magazine before the sale to BTC Media.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I sent them off, the keys to the kingdom, so to speak. and I still remember I was working on Alexandria when that was happening. Vitalik and Mihai had already moved on. They moved on and pretty much walked away from Bitcoin Magazine, a few months before the end of 2014. Because Ethereum, they were in 2013. Kept him real busy.

SPEAKER_01: So, you'd mentioned the early versions of the website, you know, were just HTML. Did have you got any backups?

SPEAKER_00: I hope so. I, became a nomad right around the same time. And so storage is a big problem. Upload bandwidth is a big problem. This is why a lot of my old live streams, they're only available in like low resolution, standard definition, on YouTube. I've downloaded them. Someone else ripped them off to Internet Archive, which is great. Thank you. Random individual. And I never had any of the raw data. Like I never. Which I went to school for this. And they're like, and anyone will tell you if you're in video production, like keep all your source stuff. And I applied that to my web development as well. there are cases where I would go back and delete. I also did all the websites for Zcash.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So, starting in 2016, 2017, I started working for the Zcash Electric Coin Company at the time.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And I built all of those. So my resume was a web developer as Bitcoin Magazine, Ethereum, Zcash, it's not so bad. But, that content should be in an encrypted folder somewhere on a hard drive that I have. Because websites are a lot smaller, easier.

SPEAKER_01: Especially if it's a single page HTML.

SPEAKER_00: And if it was on GitHub, then it's all on my computer. Like GitHub is decentralized.

SPEAKER_01: So I mean, that was the other question I had is. So you were telling me at some point you switched over to GitHub, I guess so it could be done collaboratively. You'd said people had said to you, well, hey, you've just got files on your computer. Like what?

SPEAKER_00: I was like I said I wasn't a great developer. I didn't go to school for computer science. I’d I'd worked as a web developer for companies and things, but it's always on their computers. And then I was a freelancer, so I had done some on my own computer, but I had never worked with other developers, other web developers.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: So I never really saw the problem with it. You know, the code is all on the, on the server. So with Bitcoin Magazine, Vitalik was able to log in, and I'll never forget: it was one of, it was that Christmas that he asked me, so where's the database?

SPEAKER_01: Right?

SPEAKER_00: And I was like, are you talking And the Bitcoin Magazine database because like I work with the files, I work with the HTML and the CSS and everything. And I'll never forget when Vitalik asked where the database I'm and I like, I honestly don't honestly know what you're speaking about. about.” And we worked it out, we worked through it. but the Ethereum websites were all static. And I was managing them so it was just on the server. I don't know if anyone even had access to that server besides like me and Mihai.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And after the countdown goes to zero, website needs to be updated. then I believe it was Taylor who like sort of spearheaded the move to GitHub. And I had to learn GitHub at this point. And I'm asking again, I'm asking these amazing computer scientists how to use GitHub, and I'm getting complaints that I'm not cloning properly, and doing all of this or I'm committing to the master branch.

SPEAKER_01: And all things you're using, you're merging. wrong. You need to rebase.

SPEAKER_00: So I was not a great developer, but I was a pretty good web developer. But, when it came down to to like working with others on the website and using GitHub, that was definitely where some of the struggles happen and I understand now the benefit to it. like it's absolutely necessary.

SPEAKER_01: So that's your other bit of homework, right? is to try and work out where that GitHub repo was. because I was looking through. So it's like right, these early ones were just straight HTML so maybe you've got backups of those. though. Having said that, it doesn't really matter whether you do or not, because there's the snapshots, and the snapshots of the straight HTML. It just works, right? It's not like the Internet Archive version of it is kind of oh, it's a bit broken. Not quite right. From what I can see, they're perfect replicas. And then probably probably—maybe I mean maybe it's even the case when you did go to GitHub, is maybe they were still static HTML within that. So the fact. So the fact that you're using GitHub or not is not so, important in terms of the preservation. Because again, we can still go snapshots of those. though, you know, perhaps with that GitHub repo, you know, you've got comments and checking comments and you know, more structure or you know, that you could.

SPEAKER_00: History. you know, this was the thing. And I remember when I noticed because like you used to be able to go. I used to be able to go to my GitHub page, my profile. And there was the Ethereum logo there, along with the Decentralized Library of Alexandria and the other few repos that I've worked with.

SPEAKER_01: The organizations that you are, members of.

SPEAKER_00: And then at some point I go into GitHub and I notice that like Ethereum's gone. And I go, when I find the Ethereum repo and I'm like, you...

SPEAKER_01: Were removed from the org.

SPEAKER_00: I thought I was originally, I thought I was just removed because it should also show in my commit history. But it's all gone. It's all completely gone. And I had no idea that they, trashed it.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, right.

SPEAKER_00: Like, because you mentioned that if on GitHub now, if you look at ethereum.org, it only goes back to...

SPEAKER_01: Well, it was a different site. So in, 2015, Alex de I was going to say AVSA, Alex van de Sande, but it was I think Marianne as well. And Marianne maybe earlier they did a new one. And that was for Frontier. So in the run up to Frontier, it was like, we need to like do a new website. Which was like, hey, Frontier's coming. Here's the tools, here's how to write, you know, write.” oh, Solidity exists now, you know, so it was like, right, we're going to do a, you know, we'll do a new one. Wow.

SPEAKER_00: Delete the repo. Like they deleted this.

SPEAKER_01: Well, but this is it. So I don't know what happened there.

SPEAKER_00: So bizarre.

SPEAKER_01: And may I know, I should talk to AVSA maybe de Sande AVSA knows. he knows. So you think you're pretty confident it was within the Ethereum. org? It was, it wasn't like under your own thing or somewhere else.

SPEAKER_00: It was in the Ethereum. org. and it might be archived there. Maybe if we can figure out who has access to like archived repos.

SPEAKER_01: If it was hidden.

SPEAKER_00: Mhm.

SPEAKER_01: If it was hidden, it would still be there, you know, that you can have private. You can have private repositories that you know are permission controlled. permission-controlled. There is archiving, which is stopping future changes. Right. You can archive a repo and it like at that point you can't make further commits to it. I don't, you know, you couldn't open new pull requests or issues. So that status is saying, you know, development is not happening here anymore. And you'd normally change the readme and say, hey, this project's over. Clone this if you like and do your own or, oh, we're over here, you know, this one's replaced it or whatever.

SPEAKER_00: but that history is just gone pre 2015 maybe. I will dig through my hard drives.

SPEAKER_01: So I mean that's the other thing I guess with Git, right. Git—this I mean this is another funny decentralization story. is Git is a fantastically decentralized technology that was built specifically by Linus Torvalds for Linux kernel development, and wanting to have a tool for doing distributed development. It's funny, he said he did it because he didn't want to talk to people. It's like, to minimize human contact. But you know, with Git, everybody has a full copy of all of the history, right. So when you're cloning, you're copying the full database of everything. Right. everything—like Like a blockchain, it's you know, a fully replicated state machine kind of, kind of deal. So that initial like kernel development piece was like, well, Linus's copy of Linux is kind of like the de facto version, but it's a very peer to peer thing. You know, hey, I can make a clone of, Linuses Linus's and you know, I can just use my version. Or, oh, I've done some changes here. Well, here a third person could be pulling from either me or you, or we can be pushing round. It's, you know, you can have whatever topology you like, and it was completely done like that. And then usually on your web server, you know, you would be hosting, you'd have, you know, a web wrapper that's showing that. But then what happened is GitHub like made a really good hosting kind of interface wrapper around it, and we're doing value adds like the pull requests and issue tracking and automation and everything. And like everyone in the world got lazy and it's like, can I just host them there?

SPEAKER_00: And then at some point Microsoft bought it.

SPEAKER_01: They have, And some people were worried, oh God, are Microsoft going to go bad or whatever. I mean, the thing is you're not strongly tied to it. You know you could, because you get repo is like that's all you code. Right. And history. You could move it to a different provider. But they have got that vendor lock in for all the other shit around it. So it's like, right, your issues, they're not in the repository, they're in some other thing that they have. So if you were to move to a different provider, you. Oh shit, all of your issues have got lost. All of your automation is left behind.

SPEAKER_00: I'm wondering if like. Because there were other people that were working on the site. I know that Taylor and Texture.

SPEAKER_01: So anyone who had cloned to their machine was doing local development, they would have a copy of all of that history.

SPEAKER_00: They would have a backup, or not.

SPEAKER_01: They wouldn't have issue tracking. But maybe when even using issue tracking or it doesn't even matter anyway.

SPEAKER_00: I don't think that we were. at that point, we were such a small team. And we were like meeting in Skype. So it was like if you needed anything you would just put it into the channel and or mention it in a call. And then when one of us would, do the thing and upload changes.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, that's another thing with Skype. So Skype's about to die as we speak.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, it hasn't yet.

SPEAKER_01: Not yet. So it's January, I think.

SPEAKER_00: Mhm.

SPEAKER_01: If you do it now, you can request a download of all your data.

SPEAKER_00: So I deleted my Skype 12 years ago, 11 years ago, shortly after this.

SPEAKER_01: So I just been using mine for a lot of years. But I delete it. But I saw, you know, this is gonna So I have requested a download.

SPEAKER_00: Interesting.

SPEAKER_01: Apparently takes a month or two. but because I, was on like EF water cooler which was like a text just started that and it was like the off topic channel, but everyone was in it. So that you know, I remember that room. There's gonna be some really interesting stuff in there, I think.

SPEAKER_01: So everybody listening at home. If you used Skype for things in the past, grab your data now because it's gonna get nuked.

SPEAKER_00: Keep backups. I guess that's really like the moral of this story. Like no matter what it is you're doing, keep backups. If you're making websites, add them to Internet Archive. Go on to Internet Archive, and you can add.

SPEAKER_01: Oh you can, you can like register.

SPEAKER_00: Hey, please track me that Wayback Machine works. I didn't know this.

SPEAKER_01: So somebody else is asking, and you just think it's happening by magic?

SPEAKER_00: I thought it was magic.

SPEAKER_01: I did too. It's like, oh, the sites that are getting the most traffic are going to auto register or something.

SPEAKER_00: Something like that. I'm just lucky that I was working on Bitcoin Magazine and ethereum.org because someone else, and it could have been Brewster Kahle himself was making sure that these were going in. Jason Scott does a whole bunch of archiving on Internet Archive. one of the top archivists on there. And so it could have been any one of them.

SPEAKER_01: I wonder about the frequency, because that's another thing you see with the Internet Archive, right. Is some of them just every couple of months there's a data point. and.

SPEAKER_00: Others going in and adding it. And so if everyone here at Dark Prague went to ethereum.org right now and said, add this website to it, then there would be that many snapshots.

SPEAKER_01: So. Right. Wow. Amazing.

SPEAKER_00: So I had no clue this was happening. A bunch of my work that didn't pan out to anything. Is now gone. It had, I know this. As soon as I launched any website, I would have been going there. But I don't do websites anymore.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And then there's like, you can upload videos, there, you can upload any pictures there. Like, it's a really great backup resource. It is a central, point of failure. We have this problem this last year, almost a year ago today, I.

SPEAKER_01: think there was some screw up and.

SPEAKER_00: There was, there was vandalism. on it and it was really gnarly. and of course it brings up this call to action of like, we need to decentralize the Internet. And of course, Brewster Kael, some, 10 years ago, he announced the call for the decentralized web, which is where the DWeb community comes from. But the DWeb community has a lot of growth to do. It has a lot of like, outreach to do. A lot of people, like letting people know, like, what is the state of the decentralized web? We can't have this problem of single, points of failure on content anymore. Especially in the case of the Early Days of Ethereum. If Internet Archive didn't have backups of all of this stuff, then this project wouldn't be happening.

SPEAKER_01: No,

SPEAKER_00: And you and I would have never met.

SPEAKER_01: We would not. Well, there we go. I think that's maybe a good place to end.

SPEAKER_00: fantastic.

SPEAKER_01: Great to meet you.

SPEAKER_00: It was really awesome to meet you. Bob. It's been a pleasure. I'm so happy that we could be at this event together.

SPEAKER_01: Absolutely.

SPEAKER_00: And I look forward to more collaborations in the future.

SPEAKER_01: Excellent. Thank you.

SPEAKER_00: Thanks.
