SPEAKER_05: Okay, hello, hello, we are live. So welcome to Online Oracles. I'm Bob Summerwill. I'd like to welcome the rest of our guests here. We have Michael Tan, we have Victor Wong, Kieren James-Lubin, and also today making an appearance is Jeff Powell. Would you like to please introduce yourself, Jeff?

SPEAKER_00: Thanks, Bob. I'm Jeff Powell, head of business development at BlockApps. I've been working with people on this video for close to five years now. In recent years, I've done a great deal of work on our tokenized metals campaigns. So I'm very excited to be here today to talk about silver.

SPEAKER_05: Absolutely.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, maybe a little bit.

SPEAKER_05: That's it. You're absolutely perfect for the topic today. So our topic today is silver at an all-time high. What's going on? But we've also got gold at all-time highs having happened after that. Before we get into those, we are going to have a little bit of a demo or conversation from Michael. What have you got for us?

SPEAKER_04: Sure. I'm going to be demoing the Strato Easy Saver bridging process. Right now, we have a bridging contest going on. If you bridge in a certain amount, 10% of that goes to a pool that will be distributed to the winner through a lucky draw. Points are generated and calculated through the Strato rewards program. Everyone has a chance to win. You got to be in it to win it. This is the current leaderboard on StratoScan if you want to check it out. Now I'll demo the Easy Saver.

Once you log in to your account—a lot of money here—you go to this deposit button, connect your wallet. To be clear, I'm doing this on the test net, but the process on the prod is exactly the same. You can bridge in either USDT or USDC. Let's do USDT for this one. We'll do, let's say, 100. Make sure this is checked so that it goes directly to the lending pool. Pause and earn. Confirm. Confirm. Takes a second.

SPEAKER_03: The bridge is on the Ethereum side.

SPEAKER_04: Which did go into autosave. And there you have it. One to two minutes, it'll be directly in the lending pool. If you want to check it out, you can go to advanced lending pool and your funds will be in here. Okay.

SPEAKER_05: Back over to you, Bob. Very nice. Well, thank you. Kieren or Victor, anything you'd like to say about that?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, we wanted to have a very convenient way. Some users just want simple, pretty good yields. That's better than you typically get from a savings account. At least for now, you need a crypto-native wallet. But from there, it's essentially one click to your call at 4% yield, depending on the circumstances. It's different on the test net than the live net. We're just happy to make it still DeFi native but as consumer-friendly as possible.

SPEAKER_01: Thanks, Michael. Take care.

SPEAKER_05: Yep. So, Jeff, tell us about 47th Street. I always keep hearing about 47th Street from you. What's going on there?

SPEAKER_00: Well, when we talk about 47th Street, we're talking about 47th Street in Manhattan, known as the Diamond District. It's filled with stores buying and selling diamonds and other precious stones, but it's also an epicenter for buying and selling precious metals, specifically gold and silver. As BlockApps started tokenizing metals, we established relationships with various dealers and vaulters. 47th Street became a prime source for learning about the business. There's a lot of vaulting going on on 47th Street, so there are very large supplies of gold and silver there. We've developed helpful partnerships to navigate the space and successfully move into the tokenization business for gold and silver. That's been an important part of our Strato platform.

SPEAKER_05: Well, good to have those connections. So what is happening with the price of precious metals right now?

SPEAKER_00: Before we get into that, maybe we could talk about why we got into precious metals in the first place. Kieren, I'm going to flip that to you for a second.

SPEAKER_03: I'll tell an anecdote. In 2020, around March, we were fleeing our office. I got to thinking, we're clearly going to print a whole ton of money. I got out of anything that had to do with lending. I bought some crypto, and I bought the GLD ETF or IAU. That thing just sat there for over two years. I thought it was an inflation hedge, but everything else went crazy. Zoom went up like 10x. I did buy a little Zoom at that time because I thought we weren't going to be in offices for a bit. I didn't buy nearly enough Zoom. The metals did nothing for a couple of years. I exited flat, maybe paying for some closing costs on property. But crypto people tend to be hard money oriented. Crypto is better than precious metals in a lot of ways. I was wrong, but it took the world a while to pay attention again.

During this period, we were moving out of our enterprise phase, doing big implementations with Fortune 500 companies, supply chain focus, etc. We were getting interested in the transaction aspect. We tokenized many different assets for corporates and then started tokenizing assets in an NFT style. We did a lot with carbon offsets. It was a natural flow from our supply chain work. We looked at commodities like nickel, but we found a lot of demand for precious metals. There's an intersection between hard money types and crypto types. Metals are sort of the boomer version of crypto. Maybe that's changing. Kids are aware of it now. They're on the perp dexes. The call was totally right, and you know, by accident in a sense. Metals acted more like a true hedge. They provided that opportunity too.

SPEAKER_01: There was one other thing we talked about at the time. When we got into crypto, everyone thought of it as a store of value, a hedge against other world events. But they seem to move more in line with the stock market. It's high beta. It's not a true hedge, where metals acted more like a true hedge.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, both of those are interesting. Since you went back in time, something else that I think a lot of people don't think about is that in September 2023, gold was selling for about $1,900 an ounce, silver for $22, $23 an ounce. That month, Costco started offering gold bars, selling them very low margin, 1% to 2% above spot. If you were a Costco VIP member or using the Costco credit card, you could get a discount. You were able to buy gold bars at spot. It's estimated that since then, Costco has been selling $100 to $200 million a month of gold bars. That really opened up people to this idea of this alternative asset. It boosted it domestically.

SPEAKER_05: Without having to go to a bullion dealer.

SPEAKER_00: You could go in and buy your groceries and pick up a gold bar on the way out.

SPEAKER_05: Add a bit of silver onto your groceries.

SPEAKER_02: Is there, like, bullets next to the gold? Some garlic for the vampire?

SPEAKER_01: If you have the highest level of Costco membership, you also get cash back. There's an arbitrage opportunity there.

SPEAKER_00: Kieren will be running to Costco after this.

SPEAKER_01: Get an SUV, max out the Costco membership, do all of that stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Really living. But moving forward, the last year is when it really exploded, both gold and silver. A year ago, silver was selling for $30 an ounce. Now it's $112 an ounce. Gold has basically doubled. We talk about these things—hedge against inflation, concerns about minting dollars, global instability. But is that what's driving it?

SPEAKER_03: It's a coincidence of things. When you see a run like this, it's more than one thing. Central banks started to deleverage from the dollar. They're selling treasuries and buying gold and silver. That provides a lot of the demand. The aggressive sanctioning, especially the Russia case, really showed that you can't have something be world money and then start revoking a nation's access to it. Everyone saw that. The new administration has a bare-knuckled negotiating style. There's a realigning world order that doesn't trust the dollar the way it used to. It's getting multipolar. Some large banks are buying up metals. That has to be the big factor.

Silver is higher beta than gold. It's more volatile. The price of silver is so high that it's hard to substitute industrially. It's actually going to mess with commerce. When the price is really high, you tend to mine more. It'll take some time for that to get running, but the price should correct pretty quickly once the capital's there.

SPEAKER_05: Mining takes a while to turn around, though.

SPEAKER_03: It takes a while. The price should correct pretty quickly once the capital's there. But it'll take some time for that to get running.

SPEAKER_00: So that's all very interesting. You're talking about institutions regarding treasuries as less of a safe haven. And so gold or precious metals filled that gap?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, if you want sovereign savings and you can deal with the, you know, that's one in inflationary times, you know, the commodities do really well. You can have control of it. It's a better hedge in an environment where the dollar is not acting like a somewhat fungible bearer asset.

SPEAKER_00: Is it a lack of confidence in the dollar or just diversification?

SPEAKER_03: Why now and why so big? They could have diversified at any time. It is a sober evaluation that we must continue to print the dollar. Our federal spending is up 30, 40% from 2020. We were spending a lot of money in 2020. We're going to have to borrow, tax more, or print. Those are your choices, and some mix of all of them will be deployed. The dollar you could borrow really cheaply because people needed it for everything. It's changing. It's not over. Most trade for convenience. The medium exchange value of the dollar will probably not go away. But the savings value, yes, it's better than the Argentinian peso. If you can manage to hold the gold and silver or any number of other things, probably it's a good idea. Some nations do want to kneecap the US a little bit.

SPEAKER_01: There's an element of that in terms of the industrial use case. The big use cases for silver are solar panels and EVs, which is dominated by China. China has 80% of the world's solar panel production. BYD is the largest car manufacturer in the world and they mainly do EVs. Chinese companies are actively searching new markets. You can see the number of BYD cars in Mexico and European countries has increased dramatically. In December, silver hit all-time highs on the Shanghai exchange. China considers silver a strategic asset. They even implemented export controls in January. China is only the fourth largest producer of silver. They are a net importer of silver because of all these manufacturing things. It's signaling that they consider this a strategic asset. It wouldn't surprise me if they were stockpiling silver in the same way they stockpiled Nvidia chips. They tend to have long-range planning in terms of these assets.

SPEAKER_02: Minister of the Chinese Strategic Civil.

SPEAKER_05: He hasn't got any inside knowledge.

SPEAKER_00: No inside info.

SPEAKER_01: I have no inside info. But it's just the way they've behaved. When they think of something as strategic, they start to stockpile it. They do it gradually so the world doesn't really notice until it really notices. I would suspect something like that is happening as well.

SPEAKER_05: I was aware of Bitcoin for a few years before I had any interest. I was a gold bug and a silver bug. I was doing very well on silver until I leveraged myself up on the previous big spike. Don't use leverage kids.

SPEAKER_01: Our legal has reminded me, I should say, none of what we're saying should be considered investment advice.

SPEAKER_05: Especially not with leverage on volatile assets. But a lot of the stories around that time, the narratives are the same. This industrial use stuff.

SPEAKER_01: It ramped up a lot more over that 10 to 15 year period. I can't even announce that they're gonna be importing China EVs. I'm eager to get my hands on one of these because my friends in China have been mocking me shamelessly with pictures of their cheap, beautiful Chinese EVs. I think you're going to see some rebalancing. Those assets tend to stay in sort of fixed value to each other. Gold had a huge ramp up over the summer. There was a lagging ramp up of silver too. Now that gold is hitting highs again, you're going to continue to see rebalancing. Typically the ratio of gold to silver value is like 84 to 5 to 1. In the summer, it was 90 to 1. You're going to see some rebalancing across a bunch of portfolios as well.

SPEAKER_00: People in the silver business feel that way. Even at the end of 2025, when silver hit $70 an ounce, people were saying it's overpriced. It's just a matter of when it's going to come down. Those people still feel the same way, even though it's done nothing but go up since then.

SPEAKER_01: One thing, Jeff, and I know you work with the suppliers very closely, is that buying has increased. But it's not easy to exit at a good price.

SPEAKER_00: Based on conversations this week, some big companies that buy and sell gold and silver are overwhelmed with people selling gold. The minimums have increased to $10,000 or $20,000 if you are selling silver. It might take a week to get it and pay you within eight to ten days. They're short on everything, including the willingness to pay anywhere close to spot price.

SPEAKER_01: Tokenized silver is clearly better. Our tokenized silver is going close to spot.

SPEAKER_00: Tokenized silver is better. It's like a settlement instrument the way crypto is. It's instant.

SPEAKER_03: On this point, I saw on X that Paolo, CEO of Tether, said he wouldn't be surprised if a government issues a gold-backed stablecoin to compete with the dollar sometime soon. Tether is sitting on billions of dollars of balance sheet gold that it tokenizes. Maybe they know something we don't.

SPEAKER_01: They're trying to bring back the gold standard.

SPEAKER_05: There we go. Make Ron Paul happy.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly. Well, I think we're at time. Does anyone have any closing thoughts?

SPEAKER_03: As a crypto person, I would say we love all the assets. You're probably better off having both tokenized metals and crypto versus just one or the other. Not investment advice. Wild times. It's a little bittersweet. We have a little bit of corporate gold and silver. We're happy, but it's saying something bad about the world maybe. Change is always painful.

SPEAKER_01: It's a bet that the world is gonna be a little bit unstable going forward. It's not a hard bet. It's not a difficult bet to make.

SPEAKER_05: Tomorrow I'm doing a Spaces with F Denver to talk about a collaboration between myself and Jessica Angel, the creative director there, called the Museum of Ethereum. There will be an area when you first come into the main venue, a futurescape build out. One of the things in there will be the Museum of Ethereum. This is happening because it's the first Denver after 10 years of Ethereum. There's going to be a mixture of physical and digital artifacts there. I'm doing some stuff with physical computers, which will be quite interesting. If you tune into the spaces tomorrow, you'll hear a little bit more about that. Or if you come into Denver, you will see the Museum of Ethereum.

SPEAKER_03: You started the Early Days of Ethereum series. Did you ever think it would be made physical in some form?

SPEAKER_05: No, but it should merit a museum. We need to preserve all the artifacts. We need bronze statues of Vitalik somewhere.

SPEAKER_05: The rise of AI has been very helpful. It's like archaeological work.

SPEAKER_01: Recovering things which it's only a few years ago but it's kind of like 10 years ago is like forever in the crypto world. It's like several lifetimes ago.

SPEAKER_05: Absolutely. Okay, thank you everyone. Take care. Bye-bye.