[00:03] SPEAKER_00:
hello, hello, hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So We are here. We are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague, Dark Prague. the inaugural Dark Prague 0 Congress conference. I'm not quite sure what you'd call it, but yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of, of this early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. and one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two Amirs that you had. Capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, you know, before all that started even, you know, how did your. your. Clean: hello, hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So We are here. We are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague, Dark Prague. the inaugural Dark Prague 0 Congress conference. I'm not quite sure what you'd call it, but yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of this early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. and one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two Amirs that you had: Capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, you know, before all that started even, how did your... Remove trailing your. if it cuts off, or keep as is.

[00:56] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, how come you're doing this project??? Clean: Yeah, how come you're doing this project?

[00:58] SPEAKER_00:
How come I'm doing it??? Clean: How come I'm doing it? Quite coincidental. You know, i'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because ming chan was getting hoofed out and i asked Vitalik if what i could do to help, you know, anything with. Help with the transition or whatever, and he said, can you, can you like, go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum foundation should be like, what should we be doing? So ming was terrible. She's one of the least professional people i've ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well, what the hell was happening before that? That she looked like a good choice. And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so like there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as, like, was charles like kind of a co founder or not? He kind of says he was maybe, but maybe he wasn't, which is just crazy because, you know, he was there like doing videos and like there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so i started digging back into anthony di iorio. Yes, that's right. There were three.

[00:59] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. What's the... Clean: Yeah. What's the...? Maybe merge with next turn if SPEAKER_00 speaks immediately? No, let's look at the flow. It's a back and forth. Actually, looking at timestamps:

[01:00] SPEAKER_00:
Well, it was quite. I mean, it's quite coincidental. Coincidental., i'd. I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because ming chan was getting hoofed out and i asked Vitalik if what i could with to help, you,, anything with. Help with the transition or and, and he said, can you, can you like, go the talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum foundation should be like, what should we be doing?

[01:00] SPEAKER_01:
"Yeah. What's the." *

[01:00] SPEAKER_00:
"Well, it was quite. I mean, it's quite coincidental." * These are very short interjections. I should keep them separate as per the speaker turns. *

[01:00] SPEAKER_01:
"Yeah. What's the..." (incomplete sentence). *

[01:00] SPEAKER_00:
* Raw: "Well, it was quite. I mean, it's quite coincidental. You know, I'd. I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik if what I could do to help, you know, anything with. Help with the transition or whatever, and he said, can you, can you like, go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum foundation should be like, what should we be doing?" * Clean: "Well, it was quite... I mean, it's quite coincidental. You know, I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik what I could do to help, you know, anything with— help with the transition or whatever. And he said, can you go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be like, what should we be doing?" (Fix grammar: "Ethereum foundation" -> "Ethereum Foundation"). *

[01:38] SPEAKER_01:
Oh dear. If you ask that question, it's already bad sign... Clean: Oh dear. If you ask that question, it's already a bad sign.

[01:42] SPEAKER_00:
well, my question at that point was at that point was terrible so Ming one of the least professional people the least professional people I've ever worked with. she was an absolute nightmare. and my thought was, well, what the hell was that she looked like that good choice like and There was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to of had happened then, Even though it was only like three or four years before. four years before. and so canonical There. Nobody really knew what.. Even something as basic as, something as basic as, like, was Charles like kind of a co founder or not? he kind of says he was,, But maybe he wasn't, which is just crazy because, you know, he was There like doing videos and like there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into. Di Iorio. Yes, that's right. There were three. three. Clean: well, my question at that thought, at that point was: so Ming was terrible. She's one of the least professional people I've ever worked with. she was an absolute nightmare. and my thought was, well, what the hell was happening before that that she looked like a good choice? and There was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, Even though it was only like three or four years before. and so There just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as, like, was Charles kind of a co founder or not? he kind of says he was maybe, But maybe he wasn't, which is just crazy because, you know, he was There doing videos and there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into Anthony Di Iorio. Yes, that's right. There were three.

[02:39] SPEAKER_01:
Didn't he get rocked or something??? Clean: Didn't he get rocked or something?

[02:40] SPEAKER_00:
There was, There was. There was Anthony Di Orio. Orio. Clean: There was Anthony Di Iorio. There was another guy called Anthony euphemio who did this digix gold thing. But anyway, so i. That's where i started, like getting interested in Ethereum history is just like, well, what the hell happened? I mean the. What ended up happening is everything i recommended to Vitalik, like, never happened. Like, it was just completely a disaster. You know, ming went and he just got aya. Here you go. It's a new one. No changes. Like the, the. The. What people wanted was like transparency. They wanted community input. They wanted like professional executive, like operational. It's like, you know, let's have organization to help the devs, basically. But primarily it was like, don't be a swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway, so i put the stuff aside at that point. It's like, great. That was a good use of my time, you know, advising the millionaire for free for months. But then just recently, so guys i now work with, they started recording some videos because. So kieran is. Kieran james lubin is joe's son. So he was actually around from march 2014 and the others were sort of involved from 2015. And they were just like, we should like get some of these memories down. Right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and i, you know, i really loved them and i was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this, and then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, i did interviews with taylor gehring and with texture and just tons of stuff came out of that. And then i just kind of like shoved those together and There you go. That's early days of Ethereum is this sort of combination of sort of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles and then, you know, conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like, this is history, right? This stuff was crazy.

[02:43] SPEAKER_01:
I don't know the history... Clean: I don't know the history.

[02:44] SPEAKER_00:
there was Anthony D'Onofrio, that was Texture, And there was another guy called Anthony Euphemio who did This Digix Gold thing. But Anyway, So That's where I started getting interested in Ethereum history is just like, well, What the hell happened? I mean the What happened? I mean the. What ended up happening is everything I recommended It was just completely, disaster.. like, It was just completely just.. you know you Ming went And. just got.. Here. people wanted was transparency. they wanted community input. they the, the, the. What. wanted.. transparency. they. community input. they wanted like professional executive,. operational. it's like,, know, let's have organization to help the devs at basically. But primarily like, like, don't be a Swiss opaque foundation with that, or any public information at all. Anyway, So, put the stuff aside at that point., like, great, that was a good some of, time, you,, advising. millionaire for. for months... just recently, So guys I now work with, they started recording some videos because. So were is of involved James Lubin.. son. So like was actually around from March 2014 And the others were sort of involved from And. And they were just like, we should like of And of these memories down And right And It was And eight years ago at that point And So they did of couple of And I, I then you know, I really And them And I was I tons of notes And And And And photos And of of And, And then they interviewed. for the. one then But then more of, I did interviews with Taylor Gehring And with Texture And of And of stuff of out of And of And just, just like of, shoved those together And there And go. That's. Days is Ethereum is This sort of combination of sort of biographical stuff And stuff And videos, links to articles And then, you know, conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like, This is history, right? This stuff was crazy. crazy. Clean: there was Anthony D'Onofrio, that was Texture, And there was another guy called Anthony Euphemio who did This Digix Gold thing. But Anyway, So That's where I started getting interested in Ethereum history, just like, well, What the hell happened? I mean, What ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely a disaster. you know, Ming went And he just got Aya. Here you go, it's a new one. no changes. What people wanted was transparency. they wanted community input. they wanted a professional executive, operational. you know, let's have organization to help the devs, basically. But primarily It was like, don't be a Swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway, So I put the stuff aside at that point. it's like, great. that was a good use of my time, advising the millionaire for free for months. But then just recently, guys I now work with started recording some videos. So Kieran James Lubin is Joe's son. So he was actually around from March 2014 And the others were sort of involved from 2015. And they were just like, we should get some of these memories down, right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos And I really loved them And I was making tons of notes And finding links And photos And all of This, And then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Gehring And with Texture, And just tons of stuff came out of that. And then I just kind of shoved those together And there you go. That's Early Days of Ethereum. it's This sort of combination of biographical stuff And photos And videos, links to articles, And then conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like, This is history, right? This stuff was crazy.

[05:16] SPEAKER_01:
seeing being in crypto since almost the beginning, And seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded, right? got recorded, right? And it's like, wow, like history really is just written by the victors. Yeah, it's just crazy. crazy. Clean: seeing being in crypto since almost the beginning, And seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded, right? And it's like, wow, history really is just written by the victors. Yeah, it's just crazy.

[05:35] SPEAKER_00:
so the one thing on that score thing on that score which I don't know if you know, is. so the original Bitcoin Talk post for announcing Ethereum. so that was done on 23rd January 2014 Bitcoin Miami. that page got changed about eight months later, probably around August, about, about eight months later, probably around August, September. It got. It got quick edited and a whole load of people that were there got written out. out. Clean: the one thing on that score which I don't know if you know is: so the original Bitcoin Talk post for announcing Ethereum was done on 23rd January 2014, right? Just before Bitcoin Miami. that page got changed. Oh, about eight months later, probably around August, September. It got quick edited and a whole load of people that were there got written out.

[06:13] SPEAKER_01:
Oh, you mean like just somebody they... Clean: Oh, you mean like just somebody they...?

[06:16] SPEAKER_00:
Well, I mean, I guess you can edit Bitcoin Talk pages, but what about... Clean: Well, I mean, I guess you can edit Bitcoin Talk pages, but what about...?

[06:22] SPEAKER_01:
The people getting deleted and stuff? stuff? Clean: The people getting deleted and stuff?

[06:24] SPEAKER_00:
So, yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out. out. Clean: So, yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out.

[06:27] SPEAKER_01:
By who? The admins? admins? Clean: By who? The admins?

[06:29] SPEAKER_00:
Well, by Vitalik, I imagine. imagine. Clean: Well, by Vitalik, I imagine.

[06:31] SPEAKER_01:
But how do you edit people out of your thread? thread? Clean: But how do you edit people out of your thread?

[06:34] SPEAKER_00:
no, no, the original post said, hey, we're Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. this is the team, this is what we're doing. post, which at the start went, look, here s about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to oh right, charles and amir. Well, amir i don t think was in the original post because he didn t want to be. But charles got edited out, stefan and taylor gerring got edited in, and all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah. But many, many people that were involved early, they re just forgotten. If you go back to early internet archive versions, you can find some names. I mean, some people like mr. Ryan taylor over here. So ryan worked on all the early websites for months. These pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen as you know, this is the main Ethereum page nobody knew who did it. I didn t know. On one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said ryan taylor webb. I know who ryan taylor is. So a number of these names, i don t know who they are, or maybe i start to find them. And basically it s the work of many hands, right? this was something i was talking about: you ve got great man theory, right? the thought that you have these exceptional people and, by amazing powers of intellectual skills and power of force, they bend the universe to their will. And that s kind of the story that people like feudalism. Got like, great man theory, right? the thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of, you know, intellectual skills and power of force, that they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that's kind of the story that people like feudalism.

[06:42] SPEAKER_01:
I see. see. Clean: I see.

[06:43] SPEAKER_00:
So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to. to. Oh, right, Charles And Amir. Well, Amir I don't think was in the original post because he didn't want to be. but. but Charles got edited out, Stefan And Taylor Guerin got edited in, And all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah, but, you know, many, many people that were involved early, you know, they're just like forgotten. you know, they were on. you know, if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, I mean, some people, like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. you know, these. these pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen. As you know, This is the main Ethereum page. Nobody. who did who. I didn't know. like, you know, just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said like, Ryan Taylor Webb. I know who Ryan Taylor is. like, So a number of these names, you know, I don't know who they are or maybe start to find them. And basically, you know, it's. it's like the work of. of many hands. right? This was something I was talking about is, you know, you've got like, Great Man theory, right? the thought that you have these exceptional people And by amazing powers of, you know, intellectual skills And power of force, that they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that's kind of the story that people like Feudalism. Feudalism. Clean: So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to... Oh, right, Charles And Amir. Well, Amir I don't think was in the original post because he didn't want to be. but Charles got edited out, Stefan And Taylor Gerring got edited in, And all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah, but, you know, many, many people that were involved early, they're just like forgotten. you know, they were on... if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, I mean, some people, like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. these pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen. As you know, This is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn't know. just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said, Ryan Taylor Webb. I know who Ryan Taylor is. So a number of these names, I don't know who they are or maybe I'll start to find them. And basically, you know, it's like the work of many hands, right? This was something I was talking about is, you know, you've got like, Great Man theory, right? the thought that you have these exceptional people And by amazing powers of intellectual skills And power of force, that they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that's kind of the story that people like Feudalism.

[08:24] SPEAKER_01:
It's like, you pledge your allegiance to his liege. liege. your liege becomes popular, you will, right, gain through him, you will live vicariously.

[08:28] SPEAKER_00:
That's right. If you, tech world operates... Yeah, well, people are looking for heroes and champions to cheer. In the highest case, something like north korea. They literally think the leader is a god. They're just crying in front of him, just, oh, so amazing. So, yeah, i'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost. right. So many things have already been lost. I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and. And just make sure stuff doesn't get lost. right. So many things have already been lost.

[08:29] SPEAKER_01:
And if he, if your liege becomes popular, you will like, right. gain through him, you will live vicariously. vicariously. Clean: And if your liege becomes popular, you will like... right, gain through him, you will live vicariously.

[08:38] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Or if You, You know, tech world operate. yeah, well, You know, like, people are looking for heroes and, You know, they're champions to cheer, You know, in the. in the highest case, You know, something like North Korea. They literally think the leader is, You know, is a God. You know, they're just crying in front of him, just, oh, So amazing. So, yeah, I'm. I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and. and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost. Right. So many things have already been lost. lost. Clean: Right. Or if You, You know, in tech world operate... well, You know, people are looking for heroes and champions to cheer, You know. in the highest case, You know, something like North Korea. They literally think the leader is a God. You know, they're just crying in front of him, just, oh, So amazing. So, yeah, I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost. So many things have already been lost.

[09:11] SPEAKER_01:
Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin, right? He's like really he did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff. stuff. Clean: Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin, right? He's like... he did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

[09:18] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah. So check him out as well. yeah, So I'm finding stuff. And you finding stuff. And you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. you seem to have a reasonable number of artifacts of various ages that have been preserved about you. you. Clean: yeah, yeah. So check him out as well. So, yeah, I'm finding stuff. And you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. you seem to have a reasonable number of artifacts of various ages that have been preserved about you.

[09:39] SPEAKER_01:
Funny, because I was just filming and I was just putting it. my video camera on the Internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page... Clean: Funny, because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the Internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page.

[09:49] SPEAKER_00:
Right. it's funny. There's a guy called Freddy There's who was one of the guys that started the main guys that started the main. kind of like it was like Bitcoin co working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got Loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things basically. Even though it's like as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep, Loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything, they've all got lost and fucked. I've just posted shit on my Facebook page and it's, you know, it's, it's up there forever. Obviously, like preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, like so much stuff has just like rotted because people have deleted their accounts or like a platform isn't around anymore or just you know, general, general kind of rot. rot. Clean: Right. it's funny. There's a guy called Freddy Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main... kind of like it was like Bitcoin co working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got Loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things basically. Even though it's like as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep. Loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything, they've all got lost and messed up. I've just posted stuff on my Facebook page and it's, you know, it's up there forever. Obviously, preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, so much stuff has just rotted because people have deleted their accounts or a platform isn't around anymore or just general rot.

[10:49] SPEAKER_01:
But everything I have from this survived is because I uploaded it to like a, a normie platform. platform. Clean: But everything I have from this survived is because I uploaded it to like a normie platform.

[10:56] SPEAKER_00:
Yes. Well, this is it. it. Clean: Yes. Well, this is it.

[10:58] SPEAKER_01:
I like periodically have like a, a cleanse cleansing like a non. it's not accidental, but it's just like every few years, you know, your data is just reset to zero... Clean: I like periodically have like a cleansing... it's not accidental, but it's just like every few years, your data is just reset to zero.

[11:09] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, sucks. Well that's it. yeah, I mean that. So yeah, that was Freddy's super normie story. Is. using Facebook even though you know it's Facebook. So yeah, I mean, you know, you were, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early, early Bitcoin dev. So like how did you find Bitcoin? Bitcoin? Clean: yeah, sucks. Well that's it. So yeah, that was Freddy's super normie story: still using Facebook even though you know it's Facebook. So yeah, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early Bitcoin dev. So how did you find Bitcoin?

[11:45] SPEAKER_01:
So I was, yeah, I was working on free software for five, six years And then off. And then I became a professional poker player. player. Clean: So I was, yeah, I was working on free software for five, six years And then off. And then I became a professional poker player.

[11:57] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[11:59] SPEAKER_01:
That was for over two years. And the poker sites, you know, you're playing against other players. But the way the sites operate the platform, they take a cut out of every pot, basically every game That you play. Play. So i had this idea, what if you could have a p2p site, then it wouldn't have rake And fees. So i had like the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then i was on irc in this channel with other anarcho hackers. I know. And i was telling them about That. And this guy just is like a mathematician That worked for the w3c. His melvin, he dumped just like 10 links in there. And, you know, they're like random open source projects for, like, money. And there's stuff like lets. Have you heard of lets?

[12:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[12:06] SPEAKER_01:
But the way the sites operate the platform, they take a cut out of every, every pot every basically every game that you play. play. Clean: But the way the sites operate the platform, they take a cut out of every pot, basically every game that you play.

[12:15] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Sites charge a huge amount of fees for a really crappy service. So i had this idea: what if you could have a p2p site site then it it wouldn't have rake and fees. So i had the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then i was on irc in this channel with other anarcho hackers, and i was telling them about that. And this guy he s like a mathematician that worked for the w3c, he s melvin he dumped just like 10 links in there. They re like random open source projects for money. And there s stuff like lets. Have you heard of lets?

[12:16] SPEAKER_01:
So. But the sites charge a huge amount of fees for like a really crappy service. So I had this idea, what if you could have a P2P site, Then it wouldn't have rake and fees. fees. Clean: But the sites charge a huge amount of fees for like a really crappy service. So I had this idea: what if you could have a P2P site? Then it wouldn't have rake and fees.

[12:29] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[12:30] SPEAKER_01:
so I had like the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho hackers. I know. And I was telling them about that. And this guy just is like a mathematician that worked for the,. His Melvin, he dumped just like 10 links in there. And, you know, they're like random open source projects for, like, money. And there's stuff like LETS. Have you heard of LETS? LETS? Clean: so I had the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho hackers. And I was telling them about that. And this guy just is like a mathematician that worked for the W3C. His Melvin, he dumped just like 10 links in there. And, you know, they're like random open source projects for money. And there's stuff like LETS. Have you heard of LETS?

[13:06] SPEAKER_00:
no, no. no. Clean: no, no.

[13:06] SPEAKER_01:
that was at one point. People, like, really into that. But it's like you. But off. I think it's like offering your labor. you get like a token or something. But anyway, so I would say going for one of all of these links And they're going, no, no, no, no. I saw Bitcoin. I opened the page for Bitcoin. He goes, Bitcoin is a foot, is a P2P currency that cannot be controlled by. or central banks. And then That's was like, That's garbage. like, Obviously not. That's just because there's like loads of random projects like that on SourceForge., in the day, like, once saw like a you can video game the And, you can like the you, you can. the can punch through the walls, you can, the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs. And I, like. I was like, whoa, sounds amazing. And I checked the code And It said, like, main cpp. And they had like, just, you know, like one file. Yeah. like, just got. It got bored of It. It, like It just wrote the idea. idea. Clean: that was at one point. People, like, really into that. But it's like you... I think it's like offering your labor. you get like a token or something. But anyway, so I would say going through all of these links And they're going, no, no, no, no. I saw Bitcoin. I opened the page for Bitcoin. He goes, Bitcoin is a... P2P currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks. And then I was like, That's garbage. Obviously not. That's just because there's loads of random projects like that on SourceForge back in the day. like, once I saw like a Jurassic Park video game, And It was going like, you could do everything. you can punch through the walls, you can hack the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs. And I was like, whoa, sounds amazing. And I checked the code And It said, like, main. cpp. And they had like just one file. Yeah, like, just... they got bored of It. It just wrote the idea.

[14:10] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[14:11] SPEAKER_01:
and then, kept, I kept checking months every So often, zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was thought Bitcoin was like, one of those kind of projects. No, no. and then I was like, oh, they're all I. So I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then of and So then when it came to Bitcoin, I downloaded the source code and I started going through the source code and I was like, oh, it's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15, 000 lines of code at the time. S not like that jurassic park game I was just describing. It s like 15, 000 lines of code let s not nothing, eh. It's not like that jurassic park game I was just describing. So it's like 20, you know, 15, 000 lines of code. like, let's, you know, I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor. You know, it's like my pornography that i'm looking at. I started studying it. and it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. and So when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm gonna work on this. like, and So then, yeah, I was like, okay, i'm just doing this amount. and So then I had like a, So I made like a plan of like, oh, in 10 years we'll be here, etc.

[14:19] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[14:19] SPEAKER_01:
I went, no, no, no. and then I was like, oh, they're all shit. so I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then. and so then when it came to Bitcoin one, I downloaded the source code and I started going through the source code and I was like, oh, it's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15, 000 lines of code time. the time.: I went, no, no, no. and then I was like, oh, they're all shit. so I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then. and so when it came to Bitcoin one, I downloaded the source code and I started going through the source code and I was like, oh, it's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15, 000 lines of code, time?

[14:38] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[14:39] SPEAKER_01:
Which, you know, 15, 000 lines of code. it's actually a small amount of lines of code. Like, some programmers can even do that in Like a week or something. Like, Very talented programs. but. So I was Like, oh, but it's not nothing, Evo. it's not Like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So. Like 20, you know, 15, 000 lines of code. Like, let's. let's. Clean: Which, you know, 15, 000 lines of code. it's actually a small amount of lines of code. Like, some programmers can even do that in Like a week or something. Very talented programmers. but So I was Like, oh, but it's not nothing, Evo. it's not Like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So it's Like, you know, 15, 000 lines of code. Like, let's...

[15:01] SPEAKER_00:
You can read through and kind of understand. of understand. understand. Clean: You can read through and kind of understand.

[15:03] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. So I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor. It's like my pornography that i'm looking at. I started studying it. it it and it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. and So when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I m going to work on this.

[15:06] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[15:06] SPEAKER_01:
You know, it's like my pornography that I'm looking at. I started studying it., interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm gonna work on this. And so then...

[15:10] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[15:11] SPEAKER_01:
And it started to make sense. I was like, Oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm gonna work on this. like. And. then. then. Clean: And it started to make sense. I was like, Oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm gonna work on this. And so then...

[15:22] SPEAKER_00:
So what month do you think that was? was? Clean: So what month do you think that was?

[15:24] SPEAKER_01:
That was the summer of 2010. 2010. Clean: That was the summer of 2010. But then That basically just happened really quickly. Like just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But i started working on Bitcoin, started writing code. You know, i was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which i was like listed on Bitcoin dog. But That page is gone. Gone from the internet. So people,

[15:26] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[15:26] SPEAKER_01:
so that's when I like, basically I was like, okay, I'm just doing this amount. And so then I had like a. so I made like a plan of like, oh, in 10 years we'll be here, etc. like a long term thing I m going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. It just started growing massively. so it s pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin, started writing code. I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was listed on Bitcoin. Org.

[15:38] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[15:39] SPEAKER_01:
Because I was like, this is like a long term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. like just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin, started writing code. You know, I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was like listed on Bitcoin Dog. Dog. Clean: Because I was like, this is like a long term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. It just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin, started writing code. You know, I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was like listed on Bitcoin Dot Org.

[15:57] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right..

[15:57] SPEAKER_01:
But that page is Gone. Gone from the Internet. So people... Clean: But that page is Gone. Gone from the Internet. So people...

[16:00] SPEAKER_00:
It's like maybe. maybe it got archived. archived. Clean: It's like maybe it got archived.

[16:03] SPEAKER_01:
No, I don't think so... Clean: No, I don't think so.

[16:04] SPEAKER_00:
No, just gone. gone. Clean: No, just gone.

[16:05] SPEAKER_01:
Bitcoin web page with the list of names. So. Had a war with gavin andresen. list of names.

[16:07] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[16:08] SPEAKER_01:
So like, a had a war with Gavin Andreessen. But. He really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He s a statist, and he s into the banks and stuff like that. But also he was just not that good a dev. And when there was other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was trying to push them out and try and keep control. So I became his main enemy, basically. I was his first enemy. And then he kind of seemed like he kind of seemed like,

[16:10] SPEAKER_00:
Yep. Yep. Clean: Yep.

[16:11] SPEAKER_01:
Because he was like a. he's. like in many ways. But basically he really likes regulations And the state And stuff like that. he's a statist And he's let into the banks And stuff. But also he was just not that good a dev. And when there was like other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to like nurture them, he was instead, like trying to push them out And try And keep control. So I became like his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy. And then he kind of seemed like... Clean: Because he's a... he's like... in many ways. But basically he really likes regulations And the state And stuff like that. he's a statist And he's let into the banks And stuff. But also he was just not that good a dev. And when there was other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was trying to push them out And try And keep control. So I became like his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy. And then he kind of seemed like...

[16:42] SPEAKER_00:
He never wanted the role even. He just sort of got... Clean: He never wanted the role even. He just sort of got...

[16:45] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, he kind of locked into it... Clean: Yeah, he kind of locked into it.

[16:47] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[16:47] SPEAKER_01:
and then he was there and he's like, oh, I want to keep it. I really like it. he know. so, yeah, to like went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to it was to an audience of bankers. and so I did my talking afterwards. Gavin Andreessen, he DM me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the is this guy? You're not in charge of project. you. you. Clean: and then he was there and he's like, oh, I want to keep it. I really like it. so, yeah, I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to... it was to an audience of bankers. and so I did my talking afterwards. Gavin Andresen, he DM'd me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the fuck is this guy? You're not in charge of project.

[17:14] SPEAKER_00:
But was this in London or in the US somewhere? Amsterdam. Amsterdam. Clean: But was this in London or in the US somewhere? Amsterdam?

[17:17] SPEAKER_01:
Right. But anyway, so you know, one of the first things that Gav Andreessen did. to try and get my name off of that list. name added. But anyway.. that. Andresen did... Correct name to Gavin.

[17:25] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah., i mean, did you end up starting libbitcoin quite early then?

[17:25] SPEAKER_01:
was to try And get my Name off of that list. Name added. But anyway, Right. So he was like that. And. And. Clean: was to try And get my Name off of that list. Name added? But anyway. So he was like that. And...

[17:35] SPEAKER_00:
you know, I mean, did you end up starting lbitcoin quite early then? Something. Clean: you know, I mean, did you end up starting Libbitcoin quite early then?

[17:42] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, 2011. Yeah, Yeah. mid like March 2011 or something. You were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

[17:46] SPEAKER_00:
And Was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need, we need specs, we need multiple clients. clients. Clean: And Was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

[17:56] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. Because Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project but as a startup. startup. Clean: Yeah. Because Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project but as a startup. Can make a payment system that's fast. I don't know, it was more like just he wanted to operate it like a business. And so i was like very worried Because he was, Because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So i was like, there need to be some constraint on his like, like wild ideas. So that's why i proposed that system. And thing is like, Gavin, i mean, i don't want to talk about people. but anyway, Yeah, so i made that bip system for that reason was, i was just afraid of that direction. That side of Bitcoin which they later made a foundation y and they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this. It was takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And Yeah, they wanted, they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was this like, it's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new plaything and it's just so it's like really interesting toy and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side,

[18:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Like, we need to like pull rank and we need to like make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast.

[18:04] SPEAKER_01:
so he's like, we need to like pull ranks and we need to like make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast. fast. Clean: so he's like, we need to pull ranks and we need to make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast.

[18:13] SPEAKER_00:
Make a road map. Was more like he wanted to operate it like a business.. So i was very worried because he wasn t treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So i was like, there need to be some constraint on his wild ideas. So that s why i proposed that system. And the thing is gavin i don t want to talk about people. But anyway, yeah, so i made that bip system for that reason. I was afraid of that direction, that side of Bitcoin which they later made a foundation, and they put themselves as chief scientist, and they tried to do this. It was a takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And yeah, they wanted they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they ve invented this new plaything and it s just this really interesting toy, and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side was more like, oh, this is like an actual new economic paradigm.

[18:15] SPEAKER_01:
I. I don't know, it was more like just he wanted to operate it like a business. business. Clean: I don't know, it was more like just he wanted to operate it like a business.

[18:19] SPEAKER_00:
Right. I was like very worried because he was, because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So i was like, there need to be some constraint on his like, wild ideas. So that's why i proposed that system. And thing is like, gavin... I mean, i don't want to talk about people. But anyway, yeah, so i made that bip system for that reason. I was just afraid of that direction. That side of Bitcoin which they later made a foundation and they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this... It was takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And yeah, they wanted, they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was this like... It's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new plaything and it's just so... It's like really interesting toy and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side...

[18:20] SPEAKER_01:
and so I was like very worried because he was, because he wasn't treating it like it open source protocol. it was like, we, we need to add, thing need to add That thing. so I was like, there need to be some constraint on his like, like wild ideas. so that's why I proposed That system. and thing is like, Gavin, I mean, I don't want to talk about people. But anyway, Yeah, so I made That BIP system for That reason was. I was just afraid of That direction. That side of Bitcoin which they later made a foundation y and they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this. it was takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. and Yeah, they wanted, they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was this like, it's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new plaything and it's just so it's like really interesting toy and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side. side. Clean: and so I was like very worried because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. it was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add That thing. so I was like, there need to be some constraint on his wild ideas. so that's why I proposed That system. and thing is like, Gavin, I mean, I don't want to talk about people. But anyway, Yeah, so I made That BIP system for That reason. I was just afraid of That direction. That side of Bitcoin which they later made a foundation and they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this. it was takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. and Yeah, they wanted, they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was this like, it's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new plaything and it's just so... it's like really interesting toy and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side...

[19:28] SPEAKER_00:
You're putting people off, huh? You're putting people off. All this anarchist talk, you know? know? Thing. Trying to sell this thing.? You're putting people off. All this anarchist talk, you know?

[19:34] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, exactly. I had... So our side was more like, oh, this is an actual new economic paradigm.

[19:34] SPEAKER_00:
we're trying, we're trying to sell this thing. Now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi. But for example, when i first met pieter wuille, or sipa, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, i was talking to him at the conference and he says, oh, i m not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. I m more interested just in the scripting language. It enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah, he wasn t interested in the money thing.

[19:36] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. I had. So our side was like more like, oh, this is like an actual new economic paradigm. Or sipa, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him in the conference and he says, oh, i'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. Of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him in the conference and he says, he says, oh, i'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. I'm more interested just in the scripting language. It enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah, he wasn't interested in the money thing. So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology. Yeah, it's like retroactive. Back then people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore. What you can do, you know.

[19:42] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[19:43] SPEAKER_01:
and you know, so it's interesting because now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi. But on, for example, when I first met Peter Willer or SIPA, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him in the conference and he says, he says, oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. Bitcoin. Clean: and you know, so it's interesting because now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi. But on, for example, when I first met Peter Willer or SIPA, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him in the conference and he says, oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin.

[20:09] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[20:10] SPEAKER_01:
I'm more interested just in the scripting language. language. Clean: I'm more interested just in the scripting language. Explore what you can do.

[20:13] SPEAKER_00:
Okay, right. Fanatic ideology it s retroactive. Back then people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore what you can do.

[20:14] SPEAKER_01:
It enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah, he wasn't interested in the money thing. thing. Clean: It enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah, he wasn't interested in the money thing.

[20:20] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Yeah, yeah. Right. This thought that all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin. It's inevitable. We don't have to push anything ourselves because it'll all come home.

[20:20] SPEAKER_01:
So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology. Yeah, it's like retroactive. Back then people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore. explore what you can do, you know. Of culty massive Bitcoin people, they want to be like, oh, i love you, you re amazing, like. And these people, they re not interested in the bigger mission or sense it s about themselves. And So Bitcoin got taken over by these influencers, essentially. And the thing is: when somebody comes and says, let s do something big, let s rock the boat, they re going to see that as an enemy. And that s why Bitcoin is So conservative: because it s been taken over by this class of people.

[20:28] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah, yeah. Longest time there was this thought that, you know, all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin. Right. It's inevitable. You know, we don't have to be like pushing anything ourselves because you know, like, it'll just all come home. All come home.

[20:30] SPEAKER_01:
What you can do, you know. know. Clean: What you can do, you know.

[20:31] SPEAKER_00:
Well, I mean for the longest time there was this thought that, you know, all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin. right. It's, It's inevitable. you know, we don't have to be like pushing anything ourselves because you know, like, it'll just all, all come home. home. Clean: Well, I mean for the longest time there was this thought that all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin, right? It's inevitable. you know, we don't have to be like pushing anything ourselves because you know, like, it'll just all come home.

[20:47] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. the problem with Bitcoin is the, it became taken over by these people that they like going to conferences, right. it's like, you know, they see people they know, you know, a lot of, you know, culty massive Bitcoin people, you know, they will want to like, like, oh I love you, you're amazing. you know, like, And these people, they're not interested in the bigger mission or sense of. it's like it's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these like influencers essentially... Clean: Yeah. the problem with Bitcoin is it became taken over by these people that like going to conferences, right. it's like, you know, they see people they know, you know, a lot of culty massive Bitcoin people, you know, they will want to like, oh, I love you, you're amazing. And these people, they're not interested in the bigger mission or sense of... it's like it's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these like influencers essentially.

[21:22] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[21:23] SPEAKER_01:
and the thing is when somebody comes and says, you know, let's do something big, let's rock the boat. Yeah, they're going to see that as an enemy because, and that's why Bitcoin is so conservative is because it's been, it's been taken over by this class of people. people. Clean: and the thing is when somebody come and says, let's do something big, let's rock the boat. Yeah, they're going to see that as an enemy because, and that's why Bitcoin is so conservative is because it's been taken over by this class of people. A project, you have an end goal that you want to get to. you have a strategy. and you have a roadmap and you have milestones in the roadmap. and i think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications and the people using them. so Yeah, when you develop applications and you field them, then you get, you see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, you know, when you give technology to the hands of technologists and this is what theorem has also suffered from. They, they, they're going to be like, oh, we need this, then we need this and we need this and we need this. and it's like actually it doesn't even fulfill any of the use cases that.

[21:39] SPEAKER_00:
There was like sailors, like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs. devs. Clean: There was like Saifedean Ammous... like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs.

[21:59] SPEAKER_01:
Well, I need to see the full quote because that sounds ridiculous. ridiculous. Clean: Well, I need to see the full quote because that sounds ridiculous.

[22:03] SPEAKER_00:
But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute full on ossification of saying, you know, these developers, they want to actually change things and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in hundred year timelines because you know, this is the proof of, sorry, this is the, you know, the store of value that's going to save humanity. and that's. and that's all there is, right, that, that store of value narrative and don't use it, don't use your Bitcoin. Bitcoin. Clean: But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute full on ossification of saying, you know, these developers, they want to actually change things and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in hundred year timelines because you know, this is the... sorry, this is the store of value that's going to save humanity. and that's all there is, right, that store of value narrative and don't use it, don't use your Bitcoin.

[22:46] SPEAKER_01:
Well, The thing is there's this book in The 90s which is The Sovereign Individual. Individual. Clean: Well, The thing is there's this book in The 90s which is The Sovereign Individual..

[22:51] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right. Ethereum clique core thing, you know, it's very cliquey. So they have a big political problem, i think.

[22:52] SPEAKER_01:
I'm not saying I agree with all the book, but It does, It does make interesting analysis. it's definitely worth studying. and It says that in 1997 and and it's talking about cryptocurrency and it's saying the the of of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets like markets markets in cyberspace. cyberspace. and the capital will become hyper liquid and will be able to flow from any place to any other place and the governments would lose their power taxes, capital, or control this capital. and therefore It would inherently change the logic of violence. and this is also a very big idea originally in crypto as well. Early days of Bitcoin, people would always bring this book up, and yet It hasn t come to fruition. keep It if unsure. It says that in 1997...? the transcript has It says that Israel in 1997. I'll check the book content. It mentions the fall of the Soviet Union, etc. Maybe he meant It says that in 1997. or It says that in Israel. Let's leave It as It says that in 1997 or It says that... Israel in 1997. I will keep It says that in 1997 as it's more likely a stutter for It says that in 1997 or similar. Actually, I will correct to: It says that in 1997... to be safe, or just keep the flow. and it's talking about cryptocurrency and it's saying how the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets like cyber markets in cyberspace.

[23:16] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[23:17] SPEAKER_01:
and the capital will become hyper liquid and you know, will be able to flow from any place to any other place and the governments would lose their power. Tax capital, or control this capital. become hyper liquid and you know, will be able to flow from any place to any other place and the governments would lose their power.

[23:26] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[23:26] SPEAKER_01:
Taxes capital, or control this capital. Logic of violence. Taxes capital, or control this capital. Idea in the early days of crypto people would always bring up this book, and yet it hasn't come to fruition.

[23:28] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[23:29] SPEAKER_01:
And therefore it would like inherently change the logic of violence. As well, you know, early days of Bitcoin, people would always bring up this book, And yet it hasn't come to fruition. Just in case it hasn't come to fruition. And so we have to ask ourselves why? like i don't think the thesis is wrong. I think the thing that they missed was surveillance.

[23:35] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[23:36] SPEAKER_01:
and yet, and this is also a very big idea in originally in crypto as well, you know, early, of Bitcoin, people would always bring out this up, this book, and yet it hasn't come to fruition. fruition. Clean: and yet, and this is also a very big idea in originally in crypto as well, you know, early days of Bitcoin, people would always bring out this up, this book, and yet it hasn't come to fruition.

[23:53] SPEAKER_00:
So. So. Clean: So...

[23:56] SPEAKER_01:
You know, just, just in case it hasn't come to fruition. And so we have to ask ourselves why? Like I don't think, I don't think the thesis is wrong. I just, I think the thing that they missed was surveillance. surveillance. Clean: You know, just... in case it hasn't come to fruition. And so we have to ask ourselves why? Like I don't think the thesis is wrong. I think the thing that they missed was surveillance.

[24:15] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[24:15] SPEAKER_01:
Because the surveillance apparatus obviously can monitor all the flows, all the activity of people. And if you can do that, then, then you, then now you have law enforcement. enforcement. Clean: Because the surveillance apparatus obviously can monitor all the flows, all the activity of people. And if you can do that, then now you have law enforcement.

[24:36] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[24:37] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah. yeah. Clean: So yeah.

[24:43] SPEAKER_00:
And you know, you pause a sec for sure. sure. Clean: And you know, you pause a sec for sure.

[24:48] SPEAKER_01:
I just need to listen to this. this. Clean: I just need to listen to this.

[24:52] SPEAKER_00:
So, you know, from what I could see, you know, you started traveling around the world a bit. Right. you, you were in various different places you different times. different mean, were you, you know, you going around meeting different people, like building, you know, building different things. How, How, How was that? that? Clean: So, you know, from what I could see, you started traveling around the world a bit. you were in various different places at different times. I mean, were you going around meeting different people, building different things. How was that?

[25:13] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe which were living in squatted buildings. buildings. Clean: Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe which were living in squatted buildings.

[25:26] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[25:27] SPEAKER_01:
So in Europe, there's like, in Europe there's all these squatters laws which if a building is like abandoned, you can like move into the building and some, some squats, they last for years. Amsterdam we had a huge house. Imagine we re working on free software we re broke devs it s a really useful lifeline to have. and also living in the center of the cities. I mean, like now, even working in crypto, i look at the price of property and it s ridiculous. It s really ridiculous. I think societies really need that kind of stuff: support people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It s a shame we don t. But anyway, i was part of those hacker movements, So i had lots of places in Europe i could go to. We would have communities, people working on free software in barcelona, in london.

[25:39] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[25:40] SPEAKER_01:
And we'd get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam we had like a huge house. Imagine we're working on free software, you know, we're broke devs. had like a huge house.

[25:45] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[25:46] SPEAKER_01:
Imagine we're working on free software, we're broke devs. broke devs. In the center of the cities. I mean like now even working in crypto, i look at the price of property and like it's ridiculous. Yeah, yeah, it's like really ridiculous. I think like societies really need that kind of stuff, like support people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It's a shame we don't. But anyway, i was part of those hacker movements, so i had like lots of places in europe i could go to. you know, we would have communities, people working on free software. you know, in barcelona, in london.

[25:51] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[25:51] SPEAKER_01:
It's like really, It's really useful lifeline to have. and also like living in the center of the cities. I mean like now even working in crime crypto, I look at the price of property and like It's ridiculous. Yeah, Yeah, It's like really ridiculous. I think like societies really need that kind of stuff, like support people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It's a shame We don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had like lots of places in Europe I could go to. You know, We would have communities, people working on free software. You know, in, in Barcelona, in London. London. Clean: It's a really useful lifeline to have. and also like living in the center of the cities. I mean like now even working in crypto, I look at the price of property and like It's ridiculous. Yeah, It's really ridiculous. I think societies really need that kind of stuff, like support people working on projects and software. It's a shame We don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had lots of places in Europe I could go to. We would have communities, people working on free software. in Barcelona, in London.

[26:32] SPEAKER_00:
London, I saw. yeah, yeah, yeah. So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet? Wallet? Clean: London, I saw. yeah, yeah, yeah. So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet?

[26:43] SPEAKER_01:
So actually I made the first CoinJoin And stealth implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. And So I was working on Bitcoin implementations, nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before. Dark wallet, I was like: we need to create a product. We need to create a wallet or something. So that s why we made the dark wallet., nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before.

[27:03] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[27:04] SPEAKER_01:
And then the Dark wallet, I was like, we need to create a product. like, we need to create like a wallet or something. something. Clean: And then Dark wallet, I was like, we need to create a product. like, we need to create like a wallet or something.

[27:09] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Did you first meet Vitalik? Can you remember?

[27:10] SPEAKER_01:
So that's why, you know, we made the Dark Wallet. Wallet. Clean: So that's why, you know, we made Dark Wallet.

[27:16] SPEAKER_00:
And when did you first meet Vitalik? Can you remember? So after 2012, then there was like okay. There was a friend i met many, many years ago when i was hitchhiking, And he was really cool dude. And i just saw him randomly on the internet And i was like, bro, i m making a conference. Come to my conference. He s like, okay. And i didn t hear back from him. It turns out he just walked onto a ferry without any documentation. He came from estonia across europe. He came into england And he now looked like jesus, And he had long hair And long beard And stuff.

[27:21] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I was so, I was like, I say I was living in these squats around Europe. Europe. Clean: Yeah, I was like... I say I was living in these squats around Europe.

[27:25] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[27:25] SPEAKER_01:
So after 2012, Then. Then There was like, okay. There was like a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking And he was really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the Internet And I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. He's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him. him. Clean: So after 2012, There was like, okay. There was like a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking And he was really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the Internet And I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. He's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him.

[27:46] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. Okay. Clean: Okay.

[27:46] SPEAKER_01:
It turns out he just. onto a ferry without any documentation from. without any from from. he came from Estonia across Europe... Clean: It turns out he just walked onto a ferry without any documentation from Estonia across Europe.

[27:53] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Look. For an entry.

[27:54] SPEAKER_01:
he came into England and he was like. he now looked like Jesus like he had he had like long long and and stuff. stuff. Friend. he looks like Jesus, man. and then i. T remember how it happened. But yeah, so then he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train. and so he ended up just walking around the building in london, and that was the building of the occupy activists. I went there, and then mihai came, and we just started living there, and then we started setting up our hack club right there. But then also i have friends in spain that are hackers they re making these communities. They also had calafou. So then they started

[28:00] SPEAKER_00:
Didn't look good for an entry. entry. Clean: Didn't look good for an entry.

[28:02] SPEAKER_01:
Anyway, Mihai... Clean: Anyway, Mihai.

[28:03] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah. Mihai alisie.: yeah, yeah.

[28:04] SPEAKER_01:
met him at the conference And was like enchanted by him. he was like, I just met this guy, your friend. he looks like Jesus, man. And then I can't remember can't remember like how it happened. but yeah, so then he. he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train. train. Clean: met him at the conference And was like enchanted by him. he was like, I just met this guy, your friend. he looks like Jesus, man. And then I can't remember like how it happened. but yeah, so then he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train.

[28:23] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. Okay. Clean: Okay.

[28:24] SPEAKER_01:
and so he ended up just walking into. around the building in London and that was like the building of the Occupy activists. activists. Clean: and so he ended up just walking into... around the building in London and that was like the building of the Occupy activists.

[28:31] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[28:32] SPEAKER_01:
I went there and then Mihai came and we just started living there and then we started setting up our hack club right there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that also. They're. They're making these communities. they also had So. So then they started... I went there and then Mihai came and we just started living there and then we started setting up our hack lab right there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that are making these communities. they also had Calafou. So then they started...

[28:47] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Which was Right near Barcelona. Right? Right? Clean: Right. Which was Right near Barcelona. Right?

[28:51] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. So I was living with Mihai, I think for like a year in London. And then we went to. in barcelona. And Mihai co founded Bitcoin magazine with Vitalik. And So then I was also working on Bitcoin magazine with them. Loads of stuff it was mainly those guys writing but I helped Mihai with the graphic design. Some of the covers I helped design. When we were high there, you know. So then we went to calafou and Vitalik came to live with us. And then there were two other spanish hackers, old friends of mine, and we were working together on projects. That was when we started dark wallet. And I knew cody from the conference, So I said, oh, cody, let's start.

[28:54] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[28:55] SPEAKER_01:
AND then we went to Calafou in Barcelona. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But for example, I helped mihai with the graphic design. Some of the covers I helped design. So then anyway, we went to Calafou AND then Vitalik came to live with us. AND then there was two other spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine, AND we were working together on projects. That was when we started dark wallet. AND I knew cody from the conference, so I said, cody, let s start

[28:58] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[28:59] SPEAKER_01:
And Mihai was. co founded the Bitcoin Magazine Vitalik. with Vitalik.: And Mihai co founded Bitcoin Magazine with Vitalik.

[29:03] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[29:04] SPEAKER_01:
And so then I was also working on the Bitcoin Magazine with them. them. Clean: And so then I was also working on Bitcoin Magazine with them.

[29:08] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, I see. right, right. right. Clean: Oh, I see. right, right.

[29:10] SPEAKER_01:
You know, not. I didn't write loads of stuff. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But for example, I helped Mihai with the graphic design. Mihai with the graphic design. design. Clean: You know, I didn't write loads of stuff. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But like, for example, I helped Mihai with the graphic design.

[29:18] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[29:18] SPEAKER_01:
Like some of the covers I helped design with.... When we were high there, you go. So then anyway, we went to calafou and then Vitalik came to live with us.

[29:20] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[29:21] SPEAKER_01:
When we were high there, you Go. So then anyway, we went to Calafou and then Vitalik came to live with us. we were working together on projects. high there, you know. So then anyway, we went to Calafou and then Vitalik came to live with us.

[29:29] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Right, right. Yeah.

[29:30] SPEAKER_01:
and so then it was. and then there was like two other spots. Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine, and we, we were working together on projects. projects. Clean: and so then it was... and then there was like two other spots. Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine, and we were working together on projects.

[29:39] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.? From the amsterdam conference. The london one the one that you right, right. And was that the one that you organized? Organized?

[29:40] SPEAKER_01:
So. So. Clean: So...

[29:40] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. From the conference, so i said like, oh, cody, let's start.

[29:41] SPEAKER_01:
That was when we started Dark Wallet. The london one? The one That you... Right, right. And was That the one That you organized?

[29:43] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[29:43] SPEAKER_01:
And I knew Cody from the conference, so I said like, oh, Cody, let's start. start. Clean: And I knew Cody from the conference, so I said like, oh, Cody, let's start.

[29:49] SPEAKER_00:
Which conference? From the Amsterdam conference, the London one, the one that you. right, right. And was that the one that you organized? organized? Clean: Which conference? From the Amsterdam conference, the London one? the one that you... right, right. And was that the one that you organized?

[29:58] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague. Prague. Clean: Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague..

[30:00] SPEAKER_00:
Right. In london as well. Were working together in the hack lab. Mihai had his i think it was akasha. I m not sure.

[30:00] SPEAKER_01:
2012 one in London as well. well. Clean: 2012 one in London as well.

[30:02] SPEAKER_00:
right, right, yeah. We were working together in the hack lab. Mihai had his... I think it was akasha. I'm not sure.

[30:04] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah, at the time we were working together in the hack lab. Mihai had his. I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure. sure. Clean: So yeah, at the time we were working together in the hack lab. Mihai had his... I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure.

[30:13] SPEAKER_00:
Anyway, I think he did that later. later. Clean: Anyway, I think he did that later. A social network marketplace kind of thing. So he was working on that and my friends were working on that and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. And then they were working on the magazine. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hack club. Then we co founded the dark wallet.

[30:15] SPEAKER_01:
Oh no, it was Agora or something. something. Clean: Oh no, it was Agora or something.

[30:17] SPEAKER_00:
Right. He was creating like a... I guess what darkfi is going to be now, like social network marketplace kind of thing. On that, and my friends were working on that, and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff, i was working on Bitcoin stuff. And then they were working on the magazine. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hack club. Then we co founded dark wallet.

[30:18] SPEAKER_01:
Anyway, he was creating a.. I guess what what is going to be now, like social network marketplace kind of thing. thing. Clean: Anyway, he was creating like a... I guess what DarkFi is going to be now, like social network marketplace kind of thing.

[30:25] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. He was working on that and my friends were working on that and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff.

[30:26] SPEAKER_01:
So then he was working on that and my friends were working on that and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. stuff. Clean: So then he was working on that and my friends were working on that and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff.

[30:36] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. Also working... They were working on the magazine.

[30:37] SPEAKER_01:
And then he was also working. They were working on the magazine. magazine. Clean: And then he was also working. They were working on the magazine.

[30:40] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. And peter todd as well. Stuff there in the hack lab.

[30:41] SPEAKER_01:
So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hack club. club. Clean: So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hack lab. hack club hack lab.

[30:44] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Right., later. Founded the dark wallet.

[30:45] SPEAKER_01:
Then, co. the Dark Wallet. the Dark Wallet. Wallet. Clean: Then, you know, we co founded Dark Wallet.

[30:49] SPEAKER_00:
Right. And Peter Todd as well. well. Announcement video on youtube, And it has all the co founders listed. So yeah, we were working on that. And then the cic was a network of 10, 000 cooperatives throughout catalonia.

[30:53] SPEAKER_01:
No, Peter Todd that later, later. later. Clean: No, Peter Todd came later, later.

[30:55] SPEAKER_00:
Right, yeah. The original dark wallet from that video announcement video on youtube and it has all the co founders listed.

[30:56] SPEAKER_01:
But you can see the original Dark Wallet from that video announcement video on YouTube and it has all the co founders listed. listed. Clean: But you can see the original Dark Wallet from that video announcement video on YouTube and it has all the co founders listed. Need to think more about economics, organization and stuff. It's something i also like about this spanish tradition of anarchists they're a lot more organized than, for example, london where it's just crazy people going around. So they were like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives that provide all the basic things people need to live. and we would therefore become autonomous from the state. We'd become our own parallel system, which is cool stuff. and so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because trading inside the network allows people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it. So they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that junction. Yeah, so we set up the first atms in catalonia. Cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the catalan countryside. it was burnt down and people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it. There they had like a village, basically. It's massive. But they had an industrial research sector, electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, which is our club, and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff.

[31:04] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. Were working on that and then about... And then the cic was a network of 10, 000 cooperatives throughout catalonia.

[31:06] SPEAKER_01:
so yeah, we were working on that and then about. and. and then the... so the CIC was a network of 10, 000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia..: so yeah, we were working on that and then about... so the CIC was a network of 10, 000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia.

[31:19] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. Okay. Clean: Okay.

[31:19] SPEAKER_01:
The whole reason that was made is because there's a a big anarchist movement in Catalonia. And they d been doing their thing for many years, right? But then they started to mature as anarchists and they were like to think more about economics, organization and stuff. It s something i also like about this spanish tradition of anarchists. They re a lot more organized than, for example, london where it s just crazy people going, you know, like

[31:23] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah. yeah. Clean: yeah, yeah.

[31:24] SPEAKER_01:
and they, you know, they'd been doing their thing for many years, right. mature as anarchists and they were thinking more about economics. like starting to think more about economics, organization and stuff. It's something i also like about this spanish tradition of anarchists. They're a lot more organized than for example, like london where it's just like... were like, so to think more about economics.

[31:35] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[31:35] SPEAKER_01:
Organization and stuff. stuff. Clean: Organization and stuff.

[31:36] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Crazy people going...

[31:37] SPEAKER_01:
It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists. anarchists. Clean: It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists.

[31:41] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[31:41] SPEAKER_01:
they, they, they, they example London where it's just crazy people going like.. Of cooperatives and cooperatives need to provide all the basic things and people need to live. Autonomous from the state. We d become our own parallel system which is cool stuff. And so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. they were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allowed people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it, so they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that junction. So we set up the first atms in catalonia cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the catalan countryside, which it was burnt down, and the people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it from the owner. But also there they had like it s like a village basically. It s massive. But they had like an industrial research sector: electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, which is our club, and that s where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff. But anyway, as part of that research of the cic and the tools that the cic needed, that s how we came up with these ideas. Maybe you ve seen the page it s on archive, right on system1, talking about bitlaw. Anyway, there s a bunch of pages on our old wiki, and it s talking about what applications we need to build with Bitcoin.

[31:46] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[31:46] SPEAKER_01:
Crazy people going, you know, we need to make a network of cooperatives and cooperatives need to provide all the basic things people need to live.

[31:49] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[31:50] SPEAKER_01:
So they, yeah. So they, they, like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives and operatives need to provide all the basic things and people need to live. live. Clean: So they were like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives and operatives need to provide all the basic things and people need to live.

[32:01] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[32:01] SPEAKER_01:
And we would therefore become autonomous from the state. We'd become our own parallel system, which is cool, cool stuff. And so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allowed people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it. So they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that junction. Yeah. So we set up the first atms in catalonia.

[32:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[32:04] SPEAKER_01:
We'd become our own parallel system, which is cool stuff. And So our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. they were interested in cryptocurrency because,, example, trading inside the network allows people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it. So they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that that. Yeah.. we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia.. Catalonia. Clean: We'd become our own parallel system, which is cool, cool stuff. And So our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. they were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allow people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it. So they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that junction. So we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia.

[32:32] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[32:32] SPEAKER_01:
Cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside. countryside. countryside. Clean: Cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside.

[32:42] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[32:42] SPEAKER_01:
Which is. it was burnt down and the people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it from the owner.. But then also there they had like... it was like a village, basically. It's massive. But they had like an industrial research sector, electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, Which is our club, and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff.

[32:49] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[32:49] SPEAKER_01:
But then also there they had like. It was It was like a village, basically. It's massive. But they had an industrial research sector, electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, which is our lab, and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff.. stuff. Clean: But then also there they had like... It's like a village, basically. It's massive. But they had like an industrial research sector, electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, which is our hack lab, and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff.

[33:04] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right. The tools that the cic needed, that's how we came up with these ideas. Maybe you've seen the page on archive. Org, right? On system one, talking about bit law. Anyway, there's a bunch of pages on our old wiki. It's talking about what applications we need to build with Bitcoin. So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas. So then afterwards he left mastercoin. First he asked the Bitcoin people, he was like, oh, okay, yeah, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing. And so then he went to mastercoin and then he went to do.

[33:06] SPEAKER_01:
But Anyway, as part of that research of the CIC and the tools that the CIC needed, that's how we came up with these ideas, which is the ones... Maybe the seen it's on archive, right. on system one, talking about talking about Bitlaw, Anyway, I'm not. Anyway,, a bunch of pages on our old wiki.. our old wiki. wiki. Clean: But Anyway, as part of that research of the CIC and the tools that the CIC needed, that's how we came up with these ideas. Maybe you've seen the page it's on archive, right. on system one, talking about Bitlaw. Anyway, I'm not sure. Anyway, there's like a bunch of pages on our old wiki.

[33:27] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[33:27] SPEAKER_01:
And it's talking about, like, what the applications we need to build with Bitcoin. He left mastercoin. First he asked the Bitcoin people, he was like, okay, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we re not changing.

[33:32] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[33:32] SPEAKER_01:
So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas. ideas. Clean: So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas.

[33:37] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. right. Clean: right, right.

[33:38] SPEAKER_01:
So then afterwards he left Mastercoin. First he asked the Bitcoin, he was like, oh, okay, yeah, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing. changing. Clean: So then afterwards he left Mastercoin. First he asked the Bitcoin devs, he was like, oh, okay, yeah, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing.

[33:50] SPEAKER_00:
No. No. Clean: No. With counterparty. Right, where they were chopping down the returns stuff. It's like, okay, don't want to build some meta protocol on top of this if they're gonna change their mind next month. And it's like, right, your protocol's dead.

[33:51] SPEAKER_01:
and so then he went to Mastercoin and then he went to do... Clean: and so then he went to Mastercoin and then he went to do...

[33:56] SPEAKER_00:
He was saying he'd also seen what happened with Counterparty. right. Where they were chopping chopping down the.., the stuff, the.,., don't want to build. meta protocol on top, this if they're gonna change their mind next month. like, like, right, your protocol's dead. And it's like, right, you know, your protocol's,.. you., your protocol's dead. dead. Clean: He was saying he'd also seen what happened with Counterparty, right. Where they were like chopping down the... the returns stuff. Yeah. it's like, okay, don't want to like build some meta protocol on top of this if it's gonna get like, they're gonna change the mind next month. And it's like, right, you know, your protocol's dead.

[34:17] SPEAKER_01:
yeah. so, yeah, so they. Then when they were making Ethereum, that's, that's, you know, with Anthony Di Iorio and all those people.: yeah. so, yeah, so they. Then when they were making Ethereum, that's, you know, with Anthony Di Iorio and all those people.

[34:32] SPEAKER_00:
Well, yeah. yeah. Clean: Well, yeah.

[34:32] SPEAKER_01:
So I mean, also a bit before the first Dark Wallet... Was in milan. mean, also a bit before the first Dark Wallet.

[34:37] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. Going to mention. So mihai was in milan for a fair bit. right.

[34:39] SPEAKER_01:
Was in Milan.... We were all together. We were traveling together and go to these places. But anyway, macao's also like a really big gambling.... It's a community center called macau. Yeah, it's huge. It used to be a meat processing plant, but they have loads of cultural things there. They let us use it for a month to do our event. So that's when taylor yeah, right. A lot of those early Ethereum guys, right. Hive wallet. Yeah, they came there and that's how they all met each other. The early co founders. And then also richard stott, designer. He Was also my friend from london. That's how mihai met him. And gavin wood also came to visit us in london.

[34:41] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, I was going to mention. So Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit. right. right. right. Clean: Yeah, I was going to mention. So Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit, right.

[34:48] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, We were. We. We were. together were traveling together and go to these places. But anyway, a also like a really big gambling. gambling. Clean: Yeah, We were all together. We were traveling together and go to these places. But anyway, Macau's also like a really big gambling... Wait, Macau the place? No, context earlier was Milan, Macao is a community center. Macau is likely Macao the center. the transcript says Macau. I will correct to Macao if I know that's the center name, otherwise Macau. in 2014, Macao was the social center in Milan. I'll use Macao.

[34:58] SPEAKER_00:
Huh?. Oh no, in milan.

[34:59] SPEAKER_01:
no gambling. Oh no, in Milan. Milan. Clean: no gambling. Oh no, in Milan.

[35:01] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, I thought you said... Clean: Oh, I thought you said...

[35:02] SPEAKER_01:
Right. It's a community center called Macao... Clean: Right. It's a community center called Macao.

[35:05] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, I see. It's huge as well. It used to be a meat processing plant but anyway, they have like loads of cultural things there. But anyway. Yeah, yeah, they let us use it for a month to do our event.

[35:06] SPEAKER_01:
yeah. It's huge as well. it used to be a meat processing plant But anyway, they have loads of cultural things there. But anyway. yeah, yeah, they let us use it for a month to do our event. do our event. Taylor. Clean: yeah. It's huge as well. it used to be a meat processing plant But anyway, they have loads of cultural things there. But yeah, they let us use it for a month to do our event.

[35:16] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right.....

[35:16] SPEAKER_01:
So that's when Taylor..., right? that's when Taylor...

[35:18] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, right. Early Ethereum guys, right. right.

[35:20] SPEAKER_01:
A lot of those early Ethereum guys, right. All met each other: the early co founders. And then also richard stokes.

[35:23] SPEAKER_00:
Hive, Hive, there and that's how they all met each other..

[35:25] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, they came there and that's how they all met each other. other. Clean: Yeah, they came there and that's how they all met each other.

[35:28] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Co founders.: Right.

[35:28] SPEAKER_01:
The early co founders. founders. Clean: The early co founders.

[35:30] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Also richard stott. London. That s how mihai met him. And gavin wood also came to visit us in london.

[35:30] SPEAKER_01:
And then also Richard Stott. Stott. Clean: And then also Richard Stallman? Speaker says Richard Stott or Richard Stallman? Stott is a designer mentioned in Ethereum history sometimes, but Stallman visited the Ethereum offices. Let's check context: Richard Stott. designer. Yeah, he was also my friend from London. Richard Stott was a designer involved with Ethereum e. g. website design. I will keep Stott.

[35:34] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Mihai was so Vitalik had shared a few years ago, shared early his first communications with gavin where gavin contacted him on 19th december 2013 through about. Me, and gavin said, where are you with Ethereum? I can do c basically. And then four days later he d created his repo to start working on cpp Ethereum. But the other bit i forgot there is: johnny gave me the heads up, that s what he said, which was johnny Bitcoin, who he had met through you, right? So gavin came to the squat at some point in london.

[35:35] SPEAKER_01:
Designer. Designer. Clean: Designer.

[35:35] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Also my friend from london.

[35:36] SPEAKER_01:
He was also my friend from London. London. Clean: He was also my friend from London.

[35:38] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, right. Him. Clean: Oh, right.

[35:38] SPEAKER_01:
That's how Mihai met him. him. Clean: That's how Mihai met him.

[35:40] SPEAKER_00:
I see. Also came to visit us in london.

[35:40] SPEAKER_01:
And Gav Wood also came to visit us in London. Shared like a few years ago, shared early his, his first communications with Gav where Gav contacted him on 19th december 2013 through about. Me And Gav said, where are you with Ethereum? I can do c basically. And then four days later he'd created his repo to start working on cpp Ethereum. But over the other bit i forgot there is... Johnny gave me the heads up, that's what he said. Which was johnny Bitcoin who he had met through you. Right. So Gav came to the squat at some point in London.

[35:44] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, Mihai was So, So Vitalik had shared like a few years ago, shared early his, his first communications with Gav where Gav contacted him on 19th December 2013 through About me And Gav said where, he said, where are you with ethereum? I can do C basically. And then four days later he'd working he'd cpp ethereum. his the other bit I forgot there is Mihai.. But Johnny gave me the heads up, that's what he said. Which was Johnny Bitcoin who he had met he you. right. So Gav came to the squat at some. in London. to the squat at some point in London. London. Clean: Yeah. So Vitalik had shared like a few years ago, shared early his first communications with Gav where Gav contacted him on 19th December 2013 through About me And Gav said, where are you with ethereum? I can do C basically. And then four days later he'd created his repo to start working on cpp ethereum. But over the other bit I forgot there is: Johnny gave me the heads up, that's what he said. Which was Johnny Bitcoin who he had met through you, right. So Gav came to the squat at some point in London.

[36:49] SPEAKER_01:
yeah, yeah. We were hanging out because he said he's a KDE developer.. he s written the lirc.. We were hanging out because he said he's a KDE developer.

[36:54] SPEAKER_00:
Right. I think in one of the interviews he said, i m gonna give my kde email because that ll give me credit.

[36:54] SPEAKER_01:
He's written the lirc. lirc. Clean: He's written the lirc.

[36:56] SPEAKER_00:
Right. I think in one of the interviews he said I'm gonna give my KDE email because it'll like, credit. me credit. A KDE email. That s impressive. So that s funny. he said I'm gonna give my KDE email because it'll like, that'll give me credit.

[37:06] SPEAKER_01:
Oh yeah, yeah, it did, it did. I was like impressed by it. I was like, yeah, I was like, whoa, he's got a KDE email. That's impressive.: Oh yeah, yeah, it did, it did. I was like impressed by it. I was like, whoa, he's got a KDE email.

[37:13] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.. Along, and then i guess he was talking to johnny, and johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

[37:13] SPEAKER_01:
That's impressive... Clean: That's impressive.

[37:14] SPEAKER_00:
That's right. So he came along and then i guess, you know, he was talking to johnny and johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

[37:15] SPEAKER_01:
So that's funny. funny. Clean: So that's funny.

[37:20] SPEAKER_00:
It did. So he came along and then I guess to Johnny and Johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum Johnny and him onwards. and Ethereum and pointed him onwards. onwards. Clean: It did. So he came along and then I guess, you know, he was talking to Johnny and Johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

[37:34] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I, Yeah, I also when I visited them in Anthony in Anthony.. where that.. where that hackathon... also... when I visited them in Anthony Di Iorio's. That's where that hackathon...

[37:44] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, so, so yeah. yeah. Clean: yeah, so yeah.

[37:46] SPEAKER_01:
Is Anthony Di Iorio a co founder of Ethereum?? Clean: Is Anthony Di Iorio a co founder of Ethereum?

[37:49] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. So put money into Ethereum. Yeah, he did... Clean: Yeah. So put money into Ethereum. Yeah, he did.

[37:52] SPEAKER_01:
What happened to that money? money? Clean: What happened to that money?

[37:53] SPEAKER_00:
like I. I, he did. Well that you. you. Yeah, he got it. So he lent, he basically lent money to the project for those early months of development and he did get paid was out of the crowdsale get there back, court case where it was there was some he get it back was Bitcoin or as fiat? there was But kind of disagreement on that, But that the finished off. But Yeah, the timeline was Vitalik did the white paper in about November that, that shared it with A bunch of people. Don't know if he shared it with you, if you were on that list of people who got it... right, the Bitlaw. Yeah, Yeah. right. So just A whole transparency of different... right. transparency arbitration,. Yeah, Yeah. right. So just A whole bunch of different. use. right. transparency, arbitration, auditing and transparency.. Yeah. A whole bunch of cryptocurrency 2. 0 use cases.: like... he did. Yeah, he got it. So he lent, he basically lent money to the project for those early months of development and he did get paid back out of the crowdsale. there was some court case where it was like, did he get it back as Bitcoin or as fiat? you know, there was some kind of like disagreement on that, But that got finished off. But Yeah, the timeline was Vitalik did the white paper in about November 2013. he shared it with A bunch of people. Don't know if he shared it with you, if you were on that list of people who got it early. Oh right, the Bitlaw. Yeah, right. So just A whole bunch of different things. transparency arbitration, auditing and transparency multisigs. Yeah. A whole bunch of cryptocurrency 2. 0 use cases.

[39:01] SPEAKER_01:
So they did ask me to be the lead Ethereum dev. dev. Clean: So they did ask me to be the lead Ethereum dev.

[39:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[39:05] SPEAKER_01:
But I just didn't, I was like, we can build this on Bitcoin. Bitcoin. Clean: But I just didn't. I was like, we can build this on Bitcoin.

[39:08] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. Why do you need a new thing? thing? Clean: right, right. Why do you need a new thing?

[39:11] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, because I know you can build it on Bitcoin right At the time. But Yeah, that december... And I kept pressing the guy to explain to me what it can be used for., in frustration, went, marriage contracts.

[39:16] SPEAKER_00:
But yeah, that December and I kept... Clean: But yeah, that December and I kept...

[39:18] SPEAKER_01:
I kept also pressing the guy, right. to explain to me what it can be used for. for. Clean: I kept also pressing the guy, right. to explain to me what it can be used for.

[39:24] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Appealing. No, no, don't see the point.. But Yeah, that december, after he shared the white paper around, various people started gathering around.

[39:24] SPEAKER_01:
And he, he of in frustration just went, marriage contracts, like when... when. Clean: And he just kind of in frustration just went, marriage contracts, like when...

[39:33] SPEAKER_00:
not so appealing. no, no, don't see the point. point. point. Clean: not, not so appealing. no, no, don't see the point.

[39:36] SPEAKER_01:
Right., december....

[39:37] SPEAKER_00:
But yeah, December. Can be too close minded about things..

[39:38] SPEAKER_01:
It's interesting because sometimes you can be too close minded about things. After he shared the white paper around, you know, various people started gathering around.

[39:42] SPEAKER_00:
right, right. But yeah, that December, after he shared the white paper around, various people started gathering around. To accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin we always broke. Broke. But yeah, that December, you know, after he shared the white paper around, various people started gathering around.

[39:49] SPEAKER_01:
I think what led to Ethereum's success was Having a token. Having the token is really good because it allows the project to accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin we were always broke. broke. Clean: I think what led to Ethereum's success was Having a token. Having the token is like really good because it allows the project to accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin we always broke.

[40:01] SPEAKER_00:
right, right, right. yeah. I mean those early months, no one was being paid on Ethereum either. And it's like we will have a token sale, you will get paid back. but it's hope And a dream. but yeah, the hackathon that you're talking about was in April of 2014 in Toronto. So Anthony Di Iorio running that, he'd got that Decentral sort of got working space And venue. there were a bunch of running running out there there. it was of of like of yeah, he'd say sort of like businesses of. of mean, I. know how great businesses they were, projects, operating, of there. And then of of the things that they did was organize this first Canadian Bitcoin conference to which... it's funny, So. got the the. the was the head of the Bitcoin Association Bitcoin Canada Bitcoin the Bitcoin Association were running, conference. the were the main the for the conference. So it was his space, his organization, his conference. his.. And somebody said at conference point, is this how marketing works? that you've, got all these different hands that are all paying each other? it's like, oh, there's a lot? activity here, but, all from that all source. but yeah it's there was a,.. but yeah, but there was a hackathon. that same source. but yeah, but there was a hackathon. hackathon. Clean: right, right, right. yeah. I mean those early months, you know, no one was being paid on Ethereum either. And it's like we will have a token sale, you will get paid back. but you know, it's hope And a dream. but the hackathon that you're talking about was in April of 2014 in Toronto. So Anthony Di Iorio running that. he'd got Bitcoin Decentral sort of co working space And venue. there were a bunch of projects running out of there. it was kind of like, yeah, businesses running. I mean, I don't know how great businesses they were, projects were operating out of there. And then one of the things that they did was organize this first Canadian Bitcoin conference to which it's funny, So he'd got the space. He was the head of the Bitcoin Association of Canada, the Bitcoin Association were running the conference. Ethereum were the main sponsor for the conference. So it was like his space, his organization, his conference, his sponsors. And somebody said at some point, is this how marketing works? that you've just got all these different hands that are all paying each other? it's like, oh, there's a lot of activity here, but it's all from that same source. but yeah, but there was a hackathon.

[41:37] SPEAKER_01:
So he did get Cucked Or not. not. Clean: So he did get coaxed Or not? Phonetically coaxed? Cocked? maybe Cucked crypto slang? Or axed? likely coaxed Or axed regarding the money issue. I'll stick to axed if that makes sense, Or just axed. Actually, did he get Cucked? Is a common crypto phrase regarding investment terms. Or maybe axed regarding his role. Given the context of What happened to that money?, maybe he got Cocked axed? I will write axed Or cut out. but Cocked Is likely axed removed. Let's use axed. Or maybe did he get coaxed? No. Cucked fits the crypto vernacular about investment terms, but might be too slangy. Let's go with axed meaning cut out. Actually, looking at the context: Is Anthony Di Iorio a co founder? Yeah... What happened to that money?... lent money... paid back... did he get it back as Bitcoin Or fiat... disagreement. Then So he did get Cocked Or not. Wait, maybe capped? Or axed removed from leadership? I will transcribe as axed as it fits the co founder discussion getting removed. Re evaluating: So he did get Cocked Or not. Cocked sounds like axed Or axed out. I'll use axed out. Or just axed.

[41:42] SPEAKER_00:
I don't know. But yeah. so there But the hackathon that you were at, you and Cody presenting Dark... it was, I guess it, Dark Market,. it, that you'd it.. you'd got that one which became openbazaar. that you'd. you'd. Clean: I don't know. But so there was the hackathon that you were at, you and Cody presenting, you know, Dark... well, I guess it was Dark Market, wasn't it, that you'd...

[41:57] SPEAKER_01:
Got that one which became Open Bazaar. Conference with... So yes, the aforementioned peter todd was there, andreas antonopoulos, dave johnston, you'd Got adam b. Levine as well and a bunch of others. But yeah, that conference was also the only conference where there was ever like an Ethereum store, you know, like the expo area. They were like, hey, we're the... We're like, you know, it was like a business, right? It's like, here's a business project. At that point, anthony's thought and expectation was like, all of this is going to happen out of toronto. Right? Ethereum is just one of n projects that are happening out of Bitcoin decentral. But lots of the projects in that hackathon were on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not.

[42:00] SPEAKER_00:
Right. and then there was the main conference with... So, yes, the aforementioned Peter Todd was there, Andreas Antonopoulos, Dave Johnston, Adam B. Levine as well and a bunch of others. But yeah, that conference was also the only conference where there was ever an Ethereum store, like the expo area like They were,,,,, the like a business, was like a business, Right? It's,, here's, business,. At that point, Anthony's thought and expectation was, all of this is going to happen out of Toronto. Right? Ethereum is that one of n projects that are happening out of Bitcoin Decentral. But lots of the projects in that hackathon. on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not. of Bitcoin. Decentralized. But lots of the projects in that hackathon were on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not. not. Clean: Right. and then there was the main conference. So, yes, the aforementioned Peter Todd was there, Andreas Antonopoulos, Dave Johnston, you got Adam B. Levine as well and a bunch of others. But that conference was also the only conference where there was ever like an Ethereum store, you know, like the expo area. They were like, hey, we're like a business, Right? It's like, here's a business project. At that point, Anthony's thought and expectation was like, all of this is going to happen out of Toronto. Right? Ethereum is just one of n projects that are happening out of Bitcoin Decentral. But lots of the projects in that hackathon were on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not.

[43:06] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, that's why I said didn't need to be. to be. The thing is, I was quite an expert in Bitcoin, so obviously it s difficult for people who don t know Bitcoin deeply to do those things. So that s the thing I missed: actually having something with a language, etc. It s easier for people.

[43:08] SPEAKER_00:
no, no. no. Clean: no, no.

[43:09] SPEAKER_01:
the thing is, I was quite an expert in Bitcoin, So obviously It's difficult for people who don't know Bitcoin deeply to do those things. So that's the thing I missed is actually having something with a language, etc. It's easier for people It's easier for people. people. Clean: the thing is, I was quite an expert in Bitcoin, So obviously It's difficult for people who don't know Bitcoin deeply to do those things. So that's the thing I missed is actually having something with like a language, etc. It's easier for people.

[43:28] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, can you remember like what the vibe was like at that conference compared to other Bitcoin conferences you've been at? at?? at? Clean: Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, can you remember what the vibe was like at that conference in Toronto compared to other Bitcoin conferences you've been at? Transcript as to paired in Toronto.

[43:39] SPEAKER_01:
It was a fun conference. Wasn't like an exceptional conference. Yeah, I had a good time. I was just going around chatting to people. Yeah, it's good.. good. I remember adam levine and stephanie and andreas out with each other a lot. I had a good time. I was just going around chatting to people. Yeah, it's good.

[43:48] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah, yeah. yeah. Clean: yeah, yeah, yeah.

[43:50] SPEAKER_01:
I remember Adam Levine and Stephanie and Andreas and Stephanie and Andreas... Hung out with each other a lot..

[43:55] SPEAKER_00:
Right? Yeah. So i mean, i guess, you know, Ethereum kind of kept ticking along there. Like, was that something, you know, happening in parallel or were you still kind of crossing paths with these people?

[43:56] SPEAKER_01:
out with each other a lot... Clean: Hanging out with each other a lot.

[43:57] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah. So I mean, I guess, Ethereum kind of kept ticking along there. was that something happening in parallel or were you still kind of crossing paths with these people. parallel or you were you still kind of crossing paths with these people. people. Clean: yeah, yeah. So I mean, I guess, you know, Ethereum kind of kept ticking along there. Like, was that something happening in parallel or were you still kind of crossing paths with these people?

[44:16] SPEAKER_01:
Through that year, Interactive Ethereum after that.... No. Ticking along there. Was that something happening in parallel, or were you still kind of crossing paths with these people?

[44:18] SPEAKER_00:
no, no, yeah. And I mean in terms of... of. Clean: no, no, yeah. And I mean in terms of...

[44:26] SPEAKER_01:
Like, I think all the money started to come in And they all started to go. And then I was in Europe.. then I went to syria, so... money started to come in And they all started to go. And then I was in Europe.

[44:32] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Yes. But yeah, i mean the timeline of that was Ethereum white paper november kind of team starting together about december. Btc miami... Were you at btc miami in january? Did you go to that one?

[44:32] SPEAKER_01:
Then I went to Syria, so. so. Clean: Then I went to Syria, so.

[44:34] SPEAKER_00:
yes, yes. But yeah, I mean the timeline of that was Ethereum white paper November kind of team starting together about December. BTC Miami. Were you at BTC Miami in January? Did you go to that one??? Clean: yes, yes. But yeah, I mean the timeline of that was Ethereum white paper November, kind of team starting together about December. BTC Miami. Were you at BTC Miami in January? Did you go to that one?

[44:51] SPEAKER_01:
No, I went to the Toronto thing. thing. Clean: No, I went to the Toronto thing.

[44:54] SPEAKER_00:
Right. So then. yeah, Toronto in April and the crowdsale actually was July, August ish of 2014. and then you had the Ethereum Foundation starting the do the crowdsale and then and then yeah, early contributors got back, early, in those prior months and Ethereum was off and live. was off and live. was often live. live. Clean: Right. So then, yeah, Toronto in April and the crowdsale actually was like July, August ish of 2014. and then you had the Ethereum Foundation starting to do the crowdsale and then yeah, early contributors got paid back for their work in those prior months and you know, Ethereum was often live. often live only live? or on live? Ethereum Frontier went live? I'll keep often live or correct if obvious. Ethereum went live is probably meant. I'll change to Ethereum went live.

[45:28] SPEAKER_01:
We did the Dark Market just purely for money. money. Clean: We did Dark Market just purely for money.

[45:31] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[45:32] SPEAKER_01:
Because, you know, 15k. 15k. Clean: Because, you know, 15k.

[45:35] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[45:36] SPEAKER_01:
So that was pretty cool. cool. Clean: So that was pretty cool.

[45:38] SPEAKER_00:
And I mean with Dark Wallet, with kind of time span were you working on that for?? on that for? for? Clean: And, I mean with Dark Wallet, like what kind of time span were you working on that for?

[45:48] SPEAKER_01:
we, I think we started in 2013 and then we were working on it all the way to the end of 2014. Released an alpha, which crowdfunding was for the alpha. we never released the stable. and that s mainly because I went to syria. But I thought the dev team would at least just finish it. They had enough money and everything. They kind of it just fizzled out without my presence, which is a failing of my leadership: not to create an organization that doesn t fizzle out when one person disappears.

[45:56] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[45:57] SPEAKER_01:
And We released an alpha, which crowdfunding was for the alpha. We never released the stable. stable. Clean: And We released an alpha, which crowdfunding was for the alpha. We never released the stable.

[46:02] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[46:03] SPEAKER_01:
And that's mainly because I went to Syria, but I thought the dev team would at least just finish it., you know. know. Clean: And that's mainly because I went to Syria, but I thought the dev team would at least just finish it, you know.

[46:09] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[46:10] SPEAKER_01:
They had enough money and everything. everything. Clean: They had enough money and everything.

[46:11] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Didn't happen. happen. Clean: Right. Didn't happen.

[46:13] SPEAKER_01:
They kind of like it just fizzled out without my presence, which is like, it's a failing of my leadership not to create an organization that doesn't fizzle out when, you., one person disappears. So... Clean: They kind of like it just fizzled out without my presence, which is like, it's a failing of my leadership not to create an organization that doesn't fizzle out when one person disappears. So...

[46:26] SPEAKER_00:
And with Libbitcoin, was that ongoing as well as what you were doing? doing? Clean: And with Libbitcoin, was that ongoing as well as what you were doing?

[46:30] SPEAKER_01:
So it's had serious technical innovation in there.. Has the fastest blockchain database of any Bitcoin node. And this guy, eric voskuil, who s a really skilled developer, he came and he took on that mission and he s still continuing it. He s just really into it. I ve tried a few times to poach him to darkfi, zk, other stuff. He s a really good developer, but he s just like, no, i just like Bitcoin. I just work on libbitcoin. So yeah, he s laser focused on that.

[46:34] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[46:34] SPEAKER_01:
Has the fastest blockchain database of any Bitcoin node. and this guy, Eric Voskuil, who's a really skilled developer, he came and he took on that mission and he's still continuing it. Yeah, he's just really into it. I've tried a few times to poach to to Darkfi to zk, to,. he's, really good developer, but he's just like, no, just like like Bitcoin. Bitcoin. like Bitcoin. Bitcoin. Clean: Has like the fastest blockchain database of any Bitcoin node. and this guy, Eric Voskuil, who's really skilled developer, he came and he like took on that mission and he's still continuing it. Yeah, he's just really into it. I've tried a few times to poach him to Darkfi, zk, other stuff. he's a really good developer, but he's just like, no, I just like Bitcoin. Name correction: Eric Voskuil.

[46:58] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. I got to meet him in person for the first time last year, i think, after after

[46:59] SPEAKER_01:
just do. on. I just work on he's laser focused on that. laser focused on that.. Clean: I just work on Libbitcoin. So yeah, he's laser focused on that.

[47:03] SPEAKER_00:
Yes. I got to meet him in person for the first time last year I think after Fair Play, after... after. after. Clean: Yes. I got to meet him in person for the first time last year I think after Fair Play.

[47:10] SPEAKER_01:
Lots of, you know me advanced dysregulated focus. focus. Been at that for 10 years.. you know me like laser focused. Transcript dysregulated focus likely laser focus given the previous comment laser focused.

[47:16] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Yeah. Well, I mean he's just been at that for 10 years. years. Clean: Right. Yeah. Well, I mean he's just been at that for 10 years.

[47:22] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, it's crazy. Imagine working on one project. it's crazy.

[47:23] SPEAKER_00:
It will be 10 years. He's like, yeah, it's not production ready yet.

[47:25] SPEAKER_01:
Imagine working on one project.., it s not production ready yet..

[47:27] SPEAKER_00:
And also, he's,, he's,, not, ready yet. you know, the last year or so., you know, he's like, yeah, it's not production ready yet.

[47:33] SPEAKER_01:
He is a really good developer. He s also published some stats the last year or so.

[47:34] SPEAKER_00:
But yeah, he is and he's also he's.. he's published some stats the last year or so. Just working and i'll keep working until it's done. and yeah, i mean he's got to the point where he's published some stats in the last year or so and you know, it's just massively better. you know, it's just, yeah, just the whole thing rethought right. and re stripped down and built up from that base. yeah, yeah. so i mean early days of Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? Like having seen it being birthed, what's Ethereum to you?

[47:40] SPEAKER_01:
They just need money really. Cool with it as well. He s just like, yeah, i m just working and i ll keep working until it s done. And yeah, he s got to the point where he s published some stats in the last year or so and it s just massively better. It s the whole thing rethought and re stripped down and built up from that base. Yeah, yeah. So, early days of Ethereum: what are your thoughts on Ethereum? Having seen it being birthed, what s Ethereum to you?

[47:42] SPEAKER_00:
I mean, but he's cool with it as well. he's just Like, yeah, I'm just working and I'll keep working until it's done. and yeah, I mean he's got and the point where he's published some stats the the last year or So and it's just massively better. it's just, yeah, just the whole thing rethrunk. Right. and stripped down and, yeah, that base. yeah,.. So and, and, and Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? having. it being yeah. What's Ethereum to you? of Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? Like having, having seen it being birthed. What's, What's Ethereum to you? you? Clean: I mean, but he's cool with it as well. he's just Like, yeah, you know, I'm just working and I'll keep working until it's done. and I mean he's got to the point where he's published some stats in the last year or So and you know, it's just massively better. you know, it's just the whole thing rethought. Right. and stripped down and built up from that base. yeah, yeah. So I mean early days of Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? Like having seen it being birthed. What's Ethereum to you?

[48:24] SPEAKER_01:
It is the closest expression of the Agora as existing crypto. now they've done a lot of really good research. I have like, you know, I think Ethereum needs to develop a political philosophy. the one with is is very historical. like do you you need your evidence. if you're doing, when evidence do science you need evidence to support you theories. it's all well And like having models, abstract, deductive, models, but, need to back test your ideas. And when, talk about social systems, what that is is history. the thing is with Ethereum, whenever they talk the history is it's always the most minor or society most minor examples that are completely inoffensive like they like want most minor a stance on anything. And I don't think you can be like that. I think you have to go deep into things, take them apart. etc. So I think That's really harming, especially if they want to, the world, do things. That's benefit. That's why They're making now these Zuzalu, these kind, the state communities. Yeah They're trying to recreate the the thing, the Calafou experience. Yeah where we were developing tools for the CIC, the cooperatives And that allowed us to the what people need. the I respect the intention but I think the problem is, when you make a project, you don't gather a group of people together And go what should we do. First you come up with the idea, you develop the idea And then you recruit people for roles to fulfill that objective, that mission. So They're doing the opposite. They're trying to bring loads of people together And see what happens. And I think there's the reason why Ethereum has these roadmap diagrams, which are these really arcane plots of stuff, but it's like, what's the organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one. has these like roadmap diagrams, which are like these really arcane plots of stuff, but it's like, what's like organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one. the organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one. one. Clean: It is the closest expression of the Agora as existing crypto. now they've done a lot of really good research. I think Ethereum needs to develop a political philosophy. the one with Ethereum is very historical. like if you do science you need evidence to support your theories. it's all well And good having models, abstract deductive mathematical models, but you need to back test your ideas. And when we talk about social systems, what that is is history. the thing is with Ethereum, whenever they talk about history, it's always like the most minor or like society most minor examples that are completely inoffensive because they don't want to take a stance on anything. And I don't think you can be like that. I think you have to go deep into things, take them apart, etc. So I think That's really harming them especially they want to change the world, do things of social benefit. That's why They're making now these Zuzalu, you know, these kind of network state communities. Yeah They're trying to recreate the Calafou thing, the Calafou experience. Yeah where we were developing tools for the CIC, the cooperatives And that allowed us to see what people need. So I respect the intention but I think the problem is, when you make a project, you don't gather a group of people together And go what should we do. First you come up with the idea, you develop the idea And then you recruit people for roles to fulfill that objective, that mission. So They're doing the opposite. They're trying to bring loads of people together And see what happens. And I think there's like the reason why Ethereum has these like roadmap diagrams, which are like these arcane plots of stuff, but it's like, what's the organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one.

[50:44] SPEAKER_00:
So anyway, no, I mean, it's been a criticism I've had for a number of years is you'll see Vitalik plop out this big roadmap diagram thing. And I remember first looking at it And there were Three little boxes in the top corner that were transitioned to proof of stake. Three boxes that took eight years And you've got 50 odd things on this diagram. And it's like there's decades And decades of decades to decades all of this. And also this. And also, you know that the plan is going to change every year anyway. like, the end of to. And it's like to yeah, what's feature complete, What are you aiming,? When's good enough? you? for? like, When's good enough? good enough? enough? Clean: So anyway, no, I mean, it's been a criticism I've had for a number of years is you'll see Vitalik, you know, plop out this big roadmap diagram thing. And I remember first looking at it And there were Three little boxes in the top corner that were transition to proof of stake. Three boxes that took eight years And you've got 50 odd things on this diagram. And it's like there's decades And decades of work to do all of this. And also you know that the plan is going to change every year anyway. like, you're never going to get to the end of that. And it's like, yeah, what's feature complete? What are you aiming for? When's good enough?

[51:29] SPEAKER_01:
I also think Ethereum needs to be more product focused. I don't mean product focused by like paying lots of useless focus groups or like ui designers that used to work at facebook or something like that. I mean actually going, you know, what is it we want to do? How do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective and aggressively pursue... Like one or two use cases. Deliver them. And expand that. Like, not like Ethereum is like... It was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything and it would succeed. And you know, they did really well. But the thing is, is people see what Ethereum did and they think that's gospel for how to like start a new project in crypto. It's like the Ethereum playbook and I think that's, maybe that's hampering a lot of people. And actually, you know, the Ethereum early on was like, we're like apolitical, we're a neutral technology...

[51:33] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[51:33] SPEAKER_01:
I don't mean product focused by paying lots of useless focus groups or UI designers that used to work at Facebook or something like that. that. that. Clean: I don't mean product focused by like paying lots of useless focus groups or like UI designers that used to work at Facebook or something like that.

[51:43] SPEAKER_00:
right., right. right. Clean: I mean, right.

[51:44] SPEAKER_01:
Actually going Actually going, what is it we want to do?? do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective, and aggressively pursue one or two use cases, deliver them, and expand that. Not like Ethereum was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything and it would succeed, and they did really well. But people see what Ethereum did and they think that s gospel for how to start a new project in crypto. it s like the Ethereum playbook, and i think that s hampering a lot of people. And Actually, Ethereum early on was like, we re apolitical, we re a neutral technology.

[51:48] SPEAKER_00:
Yes. Yes. Clean: Yes.

[51:49] SPEAKER_01:
How do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective and aggressively pursue... Clean: How do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective and aggressively pursue...

[51:54] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[51:55] SPEAKER_01:
Like one or two use cases. Deliver them. them. Clean: Like one or two use cases. Deliver them.

[51:58] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[51:58] SPEAKER_01:
And expand that. like, not like Ethereum is like, it was, it was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything And it would succeed. And what Ethereum did And they think that's gospel for how to start a new project in is. It's the Ethereum playbook And I think that's maybe hampering a lot like people. And actually, Ethereum early on was like, we're apolitical, we're a neutral technology., maybe that's hampering a lot of people. And the, actually, you know, the, when you, the Ethereum early on was like, we're like apolitical, we're a neutral technology. technology. Clean: And expand that. like, Ethereum was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything And it would succeed. And you know, they did really well. But the thing is, people see what Ethereum did And they think that's gospel for how to start a new project in crypto. It's like the Ethereum playbook And I think that's maybe hampering a lot of people. And the Ethereum early on was like, we're apolitical, we're a neutral technology.

[52:42] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. You know, blah, blah, application platform. platform. Clean: Yeah. You know, blah, blah, application platform.

[52:46] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. And I think it just didn't. it. it They need. be more strategic. be more strategic. Like when you make a project, you have an end goal that. Want to get to. You have a strategy And you have a roadmap And you have milestones in the roadmap. And I think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications And the people using them. So Yeah, when you develop applications And you field them, then you get to see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, you know, when you give technology to the hands of technologists... And this is what Ethereum has also suffered from.

[52:53] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[52:53] SPEAKER_01:
Like when You a project, You You an end goal that You want to get to. You have a strategy. to get to. You have a strategy. strategy. Clean: Like when You make a project, You have an end goal that You want to get to. You have a strategy.

[53:00] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah.

[53:00] SPEAKER_01:
and you have a roadmap and you have milestones in the roadmap. roadmap. Clean: and you have a roadmap and you have milestones in the roadmap.

[53:03] SPEAKER_00:
Yes. Yes. Clean: Yes.

[53:04] SPEAKER_01:
and I think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications and the people using them. them. Clean: and I think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications and the people using them.

[53:13] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Right. Clean: Right.

[53:13] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah, when you develop applications and you field them, then you see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, when you give technology to the hands of technologists and this is what Ethereum has also suffered from. theorem has also suffered from. from. Clean: So yeah, when you develop applications and you field them, then you get, you see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, you know, when you give technology to the hands of technologists and this is what Ethereum has also suffered from.

[53:30] SPEAKER_00:
They're like kind of builds stuff that's interesting to them. them. them. Clean: They're like kind of builds, build stuff that's interesting to them.

[53:33] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, exactly. And again it becomes arcane, like, oh, we need this, then we need this And we need this And we need this. And it's like actually it doesn't even fulfill any of the use cases that... Clean: Yeah, exactly. And again it becomes arcane, like, oh, we need this, then we need this And we need this And we need this. And it's like actually it doesn't even fulfill any of the use cases that...

[53:43] SPEAKER_00:
well, no, no, no, I mean it shouldn't be hard. Right. It's thinking, okay, well who are our users and what do they want to do and let's do that. that. Clean: well, no, no, no, I mean it shouldn't be hard. Right. It's thinking, okay, well who are our users and what do they want to do and let's do that.

[53:54] SPEAKER_01:
it's really difficult to talk to the the Ethereum clique core thing it's very cliquey. So they have a big political problem, I think., I think. think. Clean: it's really difficult to talk to like the Ethereum clique core thing, you know, it's very cliquey. So they have a big political problem, I think.

[54:03] SPEAKER_00:
yeah, yeah. And I think that sort of almost unbounded scope is problematic. something Nick Szabo talks about is the idea of argument surface. So he's drawing an analogy with attack surface for security stuff And is saying on a social level, the argument surface for a system is basically, how much stuff is there that's up for,, that's not defined, that, can have a reasonable argument about. we should do this, we should we should we should do we should do. And if you have a really Well defined system, right where where it's very clear what this, is for And it's it's meant to do And have we met these needs or not? you have have all the have because you all know what you're building you you don't fuck about you the design or plans or anything because you've all got that common goal. So then the criticism there of Ethereum is that there's almost infinite argument surface. It becomes like a., right. So you've all got protocol politicians And lobbying groups And you can sit And argue about It for years And end of, oh, we should have this feature, that feature,, protocol, the other. And a lot of those aren't necessarily actually moving you to something that is actually solving real use case problems that's actually getting people using the tech. Okay, Well, thanks. Well, thank you very much for your time. Would you like to just say a little bit about DarkFi before we wrap?. Would you like to just say a little bit about DarkFi before we wrap? dark five before we wrap. Clean: yeah, yeah. And I think that sort of almost unbounded scope is problematic. something Nick Szabo talks about is the idea of argument surface. So he's drawing an analogy with attack surface for security stuff And is saying on a social level, the argument surface for a system is basically like, how much stuff is there that's like up for grabs, that's not defined, that you can have a reasonable argument about? we should do this, we should do that, we should do the other. And if you have a really Well defined system, right, where it's very clear what this thing is for And what it's meant to do And like, have we met these needs or not? you don't have all the arguments because you all know what you're building. you don't fuck about like changing the design or plans or anything because you've all got that common goal. So then the criticism there of Ethereum is that there's almost infinite arguments surface. It become like a parliament, right. So you've all got protocol politicians And lobbying groups And you can sit And argue about them for years on end of like, oh, we should have this feature, that feature, this protocol, the other. And a lot of those aren't necessarily actually moving you to something that is actually solving real use case problems that's actually getting people using the tech. Okay, Well, thanks. Well, thank you very much for your time. Would you like to just say a little bit about DarkFi before we wrap?

[55:50] SPEAKER_01:
yeah. Darkfi is an L1, right? Oh, yeah, sorry. Darkfi is an L1. You can do everything with it, but anonymous. So You can buy and sell. You can make anonymous DAOs do OTC, etc. That's what we need to build the agora... need to build the agora. Clean: yeah. DarkFi's L1, right? Oh, yeah, sorry. DarkFi's an L1. You can do everything with it, but anonymous. So You know, You can buy and sell. You can make anonymous styles do OTC, etc. That's what we need to build the agora.

[56:14] SPEAKER_00:
So I've heard some people say, perhaps Monero with smart contracts, would that be reasonable? reasonable? Clean: So I've heard some people say, perhaps Monero with smart contracts, would that be reasonable?

[56:22] SPEAKER_01:
but we're not using Ring sigs, we're using this. this. Clean: but we're not using Ring signatures, we're using zk SNARKs. Assuming this refers to zk SNARKs mentioned earlier in zk, other stuff, but speaker just says we're using this. I'll stick to we're using this to be safe, or maybe zk SNARKs if I want to fix The transcript based on context of DarkFi. DarkFi uses zk SNARKs. I will leave it as we're using this to be strictly faithful, or we're using zk if The transcript said using this but I'm unsure. Ring six Ring signatures. I will correct Ring six to Ring signatures. I will leave we're using this as is, or we're using zk if it fits. The transcript says using this. I'll keep it.

[56:25] SPEAKER_00:
So Zcash with smart contracts? contracts? Clean: So Zcash with smart contracts?

[56:30] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. Well, Yeah, maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Clean: Yeah. Well, Yeah, maybe. Yeah.

[56:34] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. Thanks so much. much. Clean: Okay. Thanks so much.

[56:36] SPEAKER_01:
Thank you. you. Clean: Thank you. 4. Final Review: Formatting: MM: SS SPEAKER_XX: followed by text. Merge consecutive paragraphs. Names: Amir Taaki, Vitalik, Ming Chan, Anthony Di Iorio, Mihai Alisie Mihai, Kieran Kieren James Lubin, Taylor Gehring, Texture, Gavin Andresen, Gav Wood, Peter Todd, Richard Stott, Cody Wilson, Eric Voskuil. Terms: Ethereum, Bitcoin, Bitcoin Talk, BIPs, DAO, Mastercoin, Counterparty, Dark Wallet, OpenBazaar, Libbitcoin, Zuzalu, Calafou, CIC, DarkFi, Ring signatures from Ring six, OTC, Zcash. Self Correction on Ring six: Ring six is definitely Ring signatures. Self Correction on Eric Voskor: Eric Voskuil. Self Correction on California in Barcelona: Calafou. Self Correction on Taylor Guerin: Taylor Gerring. Self Correction on Peter Willer: Peter Todd or Pieter Wuille? Peter Willer sounds like Pieter Wuille. But He mentioned SIPA right after. SIPA is Pieter Wuille. He said Peter Willer or SIPA. I will correct Peter Willer to Pieter Wuille if I'm sure, or keep Peter Willer if unsure. SIPA is the handle. Pieter Wuille is the name. Peter Willer is likely a transcription of Pieter Wuille. I will correct to Pieter Wuille. Self Correction on Stephanie: Stephanie Murphy? Probably. I'll leave as Stephanie. Self Correction on zoo zalu: Zuzalu. Self Correction on color faux thing: Calafou. Let's generate the output.

[00:03] SPEAKER_00:
Hello, hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So we are here. We are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague, Dark Prague. The inaugural Dark Prague 0 Congress conference. I'm not quite sure what you'd call it, but yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of this early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. And one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two Amirs that you had: Capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, you know, before all that started even, how did your...

[00:56] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, how come you're doing this project?

[00:58] SPEAKER_00:
How come I'm doing it?

[01:00] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. What's the...

[01:00] SPEAKER_00:
Well, it was quite... I mean, it's quite coincidental. You know, I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018, basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik what I could do to help, you know, anything with— help with the transition or whatever. And he said, can you go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be like, what should we be doing?

[01:38] SPEAKER_01:
Oh dear. If you ask that question, it's already a bad sign.

[01:42] SPEAKER_00:
Well, my question at that thought, at that point was: so Ming was terrible. She's one of the least professional people I've ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well, what the hell was happening before that that she looked like a good choice? And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as, like, was Charles kind of a co-founder or not? He kind of says he was maybe, but maybe he wasn't, which is just crazy because, you know, he was there doing videos and there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into Anthony Di Iorio. Yes, that's right. There were three.

[02:39] SPEAKER_01:
Didn't he get rocked or something?

[02:40] SPEAKER_00:
There was Anthony Di Iorio.

[02:43] SPEAKER_01:
I don't know the history.

[02:44] SPEAKER_00:
There was Anthony D'Onofrio, that was Texture, and there was another guy called Anthony Euphemio who did this Digix Gold thing. But anyway, so that's where I started getting interested in Ethereum history, just like, well, what the hell happened? I mean, what ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely a disaster. You know, Ming went and he just got Aya. Here you go, it's a new one. No changes. What people wanted was transparency. They wanted community input. They wanted a professional executive, operational. You know, let's have organization to help the devs, basically. But primarily it was like, don't be a Swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway, so I put the stuff aside at that point. It's like, great. That was a good use of my time, advising the millionaire for free for months. But then just recently, guys I now work with started recording some videos. So Kieran James Lubin is Joe's son. So he was actually around from March 2014 and the others were sort of involved from 2015. And they were just like, we should get some of these memories down, right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and I really loved them and I was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this, and then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Gehring and with Texture, and just tons of stuff came out of that. And then I just kind of shoved those together and there you go. That's Early Days of Ethereum. It's this sort of combination of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles, and then conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like, this is history, right? This stuff was crazy.

[05:16] SPEAKER_01:
Seeing being in crypto since almost the beginning, and seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded, right? And it's like, wow, history really is just written by the victors. Yeah, it's just crazy.

[05:35] SPEAKER_00:
The one thing on that score which I don't know if you know is: so the original Bitcoin Talk post for announcing Ethereum was done on 23rd January 2014, right? Just before Bitcoin Miami. That page got changed. Oh, about eight months later, probably around August, September. It got quick edited and a whole load of people that were there got written out.

[06:13] SPEAKER_01:
Oh, you mean like just somebody they...?

[06:16] SPEAKER_00:
Well, I mean, I guess you can edit Bitcoin Talk pages, but what about...?

[06:22] SPEAKER_01:
The people getting deleted and stuff?

[06:24] SPEAKER_00:
So, yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out.

[06:27] SPEAKER_01:
By who? The admins?

[06:29] SPEAKER_00:
Well, by Vitalik, I imagine.

[06:31] SPEAKER_01:
But how do you edit people out of your thread?

[06:34] SPEAKER_00:
No, no, the original post said, hey, we're Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is the team, this is what we're doing.

[06:42] SPEAKER_01:
I see.

[06:43] SPEAKER_00:
So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to... Oh, right, Charles and Amir. Well, Amir I don't think was in the original post because he didn't want to be. But Charles got edited out, Stefan and Taylor Gerring got edited in, and all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah, but, you know, many, many people that were involved early, they're just like forgotten. You know, they were on... if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, I mean, some people, like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. These pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen. As you know, this is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn't know. Just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said, Ryan Taylor Webb. I know who Ryan Taylor is. So a number of these names, I don't know who they are or maybe I'll start to find them. And basically, you know, it's like the work of many hands, right? This was something I was talking about is, you know, you've got like, Great Man theory, right? The thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of intellectual skills and power of force, that they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that's kind of the story that people like Feudalism.

[08:24] SPEAKER_01:
It's like, you pledge your allegiance to his liege.

[08:28] SPEAKER_00:
That's right.

[08:29] SPEAKER_01:
And if your liege becomes popular, you will like... right, gain through him, you will live vicariously.

[08:38] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Or if you, you know, in tech world operate... well, you know, people are looking for heroes and champions to cheer, you know. In the highest case, you know, something like North Korea. They literally think the leader is a God. You know, they're just crying in front of him, just, oh, so amazing. So, yeah, I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost. So many things have already been lost.

[09:11] SPEAKER_01:
Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin, right? He's like... he did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

[09:18] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah. So check him out as well. So, yeah, I'm finding stuff. And you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. You seem to have a reasonable number of artifacts of various ages that have been preserved about you.

[09:39] SPEAKER_01:
Funny, because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the Internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page.

[09:49] SPEAKER_00:
Right. It's funny. There's a guy called Freddy Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main... kind of like it was like Bitcoin co-working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things basically. Even though it's like as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep. Loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything, they've all got lost and messed up. I've just posted stuff on my Facebook page and it's, you know, it's up there forever. Obviously, preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, so much stuff has just rotted because people have deleted their accounts or a platform isn't around anymore or just general rot.

[10:49] SPEAKER_01:
But everything I have from this survived is because I uploaded it to like a normie platform.

[10:56] SPEAKER_00:
Yes. Well, this is it.

[10:58] SPEAKER_01:
I like periodically have like a cleansing... it's not accidental, but it's just like every few years, your data is just reset to zero.

[11:09] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, sucks. Well that's it. So yeah, that was Freddy's super normie story: still using Facebook even though you know it's Facebook. So yeah, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early Bitcoin dev. So how did you find Bitcoin?

[11:45] SPEAKER_01:
So I was, yeah, I was working on free software for five, six years and then off. And then I became a professional poker player.

[11:57] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[11:59] SPEAKER_01:
That was for over two years. And the poker sites, you know, you're playing against other players.

[12:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[12:06] SPEAKER_01:
But the way the sites operate the platform, they take a cut out of every pot, basically every game that you play.

[12:15] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[12:16] SPEAKER_01:
But the sites charge a huge amount of fees for like a really crappy service. So I had this idea: what if you could have a P2P site? Then it wouldn't have rake and fees.

[12:29] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[12:30] SPEAKER_01:
So I had the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho hackers. And I was telling them about that. And this guy just is like a mathematician that worked for the W3C. His Melvin, he dumped just like 10 links in there. And, you know, they're like random open source projects for money. And there's stuff like LETS. Have you heard of LETS?

[13:06] SPEAKER_00:
No, no.

[13:06] SPEAKER_01:
That was at one point. People, like, really into that. But it's like you... I think it's like offering your labor. You get like a token or something. But anyway, so I would say going through all of these links and they're going, no, no, no, no. I saw Bitcoin. I opened the page for Bitcoin. He goes, Bitcoin is a... P2P currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks. And then I was like, that's garbage. Obviously not. That's just because there's loads of random projects like that on SourceForge back in the day. Like, once I saw like a Jurassic Park video game, and it was going like, you could do everything. You can punch through the walls, you can hack the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs. And I was like, whoa, sounds amazing. And I checked the code and it said, like, main.cpp. And they had like just one file. Yeah, like, just... they got bored of it. It just wrote the idea.

[14:10] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[14:11] SPEAKER_01:
And then, I kept checking months every so often, and there's like zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was like one of those kind of projects.

[14:19] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[14:19] SPEAKER_01:
I went, no, no, no. And then I was like, oh, they're all shit. So I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then. And so when it came to Bitcoin one, I downloaded the source code and I started going through the source code and I was like, oh, it's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15,000 lines of code.

[14:38] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[14:39] SPEAKER_01:
Which, you know, 15,000 lines of code. It's actually a small amount of lines of code. Like, some programmers can even do that in like a week or something. Very talented programmers. But so I was like, oh, but it's not nothing, Evo. It's not like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So it's like, you know, 15,000 lines of code. Like, let's...

[15:01] SPEAKER_00:
You can read through and kind of understand.

[15:03] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. So I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor.

[15:06] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[15:06] SPEAKER_01:
You know, it's like my pornography that I'm looking at. I started studying it.

[15:10] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[15:11] SPEAKER_01:
And it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm gonna work on this. And so then...

[15:22] SPEAKER_00:
So what month do you think that was?

[15:24] SPEAKER_01:
That was the summer of 2010.

[15:26] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[15:26] SPEAKER_01:
So that's when I basically was like, okay, I'm just doing this amount. And so then I had like... I made like a plan of like, oh, in 10 years we'll be here, etc.

[15:38] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[15:39] SPEAKER_01:
Because I was like, this is like a long term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. It just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin, started writing code. You know, I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was like listed on Bitcoin Dot Org.

[15:57] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[15:57] SPEAKER_01:
But that page is gone. Gone from the Internet. So people...

[16:00] SPEAKER_00:
It's like maybe it got archived.

[16:03] SPEAKER_01:
No, I don't think so.

[16:04] SPEAKER_00:
No, just gone.

[16:05] SPEAKER_01:
Bitcoin web page with the list of names.

[16:07] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[16:08] SPEAKER_01:
So like, I had a war with Gavin Andresen.

[16:10] SPEAKER_00:
Yep.

[16:11] SPEAKER_01:
Because he's a... he's like... in many ways. But basically he really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He's a statist and he's let into the banks and stuff. But also he was just not that good a dev. And when there was other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was trying to push them out and try and keep control. So I became like his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy. And then he kind of seemed like...

[16:42] SPEAKER_00:
He never wanted the role even. He just sort of got...

[16:45] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, he kind of locked into it.

[16:47] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[16:47] SPEAKER_01:
And then he was there and he's like, oh, I want to keep it. I really like it. So, yeah, I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to... it was to an audience of bankers. And so I did my talking afterwards. Gavin Andresen, he DM'd me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the fuck is this guy? You're not in charge of project.

[17:14] SPEAKER_00:
But was this in London or in the US somewhere? Amsterdam?

[17:17] SPEAKER_01:
Right. But anyway, so you know, one of the first things that Gavin Andresen did...

[17:25] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[17:25] SPEAKER_01:
Was to try and get my name off of that list. Name added? But anyway. So he was like that. And...

[17:35] SPEAKER_00:
You know, I mean, did you end up starting Libbitcoin quite early then?

[17:42] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, 2011. Yeah, mid like March 2011 or something.

[17:46] SPEAKER_00:
And was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

[17:56] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. Because Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project but as a startup.

[18:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[18:04] SPEAKER_01:
So he's like, we need to pull ranks and we need to make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast.

[18:13] SPEAKER_00:
Make a roadmap.

[18:15] SPEAKER_01:
I don't know, it was more like just he wanted to operate it like a business.

[18:19] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[18:20] SPEAKER_01:
And so I was like very worried because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So I was like, there need to be some constraint on his wild ideas. So that's why I proposed that system. And thing is like, Gavin, I mean, I don't want to talk about people. But anyway, yeah, so I made that BIP system for that reason. I was just afraid of that direction. That side of Bitcoin which they later made a foundation and they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this. It was takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And yeah, they wanted, they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was this like, it's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new plaything and it's just so... it's like really interesting toy and if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side...

[19:28] SPEAKER_00:
You're putting people off, huh? You're putting people off. All this anarchist talk, you know?

[19:34] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, exactly.

[19:34] SPEAKER_00:
We're trying, we're trying to sell this thing.

[19:36] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. So our side was like more like, oh, this is like an actual new economic paradigm.

[19:42] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[19:43] SPEAKER_01:
And you know, so it's interesting because now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi. But on, for example, when I first met Pieter Wuille or SIPA, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him in the conference and he says, oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin.

[20:09] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[20:10] SPEAKER_01:
I'm more interested just in the scripting language.

[20:13] SPEAKER_00:
Okay, right.

[20:14] SPEAKER_01:
It enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah, he wasn't interested in the money thing.

[20:20] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[20:20] SPEAKER_01:
So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology. Yeah, it's like retroactive. Back then people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore.

[20:28] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

[20:30] SPEAKER_01:
What you can do, you know.

[20:31] SPEAKER_00:
Well, I mean for the longest time there was this thought that all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin, right? It's inevitable. You know, we don't have to be like pushing anything ourselves because you know, like, it'll just all come home.

[20:47] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. The problem with Bitcoin is it became taken over by these people that like going to conferences, right. It's like, you know, they see people they know, you know, a lot of culty massive Bitcoin people, you know, they will want to like, oh, I love you, you're amazing. And these people, they're not interested in the bigger mission or sense of... It's like it's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these like influencers essentially.

[21:22] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[21:23] SPEAKER_01:
And the thing is when somebody come and says, let's do something big, let's rock the boat. Yeah, they're going to see that as an enemy because, and that's why Bitcoin is so conservative is because it's been taken over by this class of people.

[21:39] SPEAKER_00:
There was like Saifedean Ammous... like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs.

[21:59] SPEAKER_01:
Well, I need to see the full quote because that sounds ridiculous.

[22:03] SPEAKER_00:
But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute full on ossification of saying, you know, these developers, they want to actually change things and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in hundred year timelines because you know, this is the... sorry, this is the store of value that's going to save humanity. And that's all there is, right, that store of value narrative and don't use it, don't use your Bitcoin.

[22:46] SPEAKER_01:
Well, the thing is there's this book in the 90s which is The Sovereign Individual.

[22:51] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[22:52] SPEAKER_01:
I'm not saying I agree with all the book, but it does make interesting analysis. It's definitely worth studying. And it says that in 1997... and it's talking about cryptocurrency and it's saying how the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets like cyber markets in cyberspace.

[23:16] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[23:17] SPEAKER_01:
And the capital will become hyper liquid and you know, will be able to flow from any place to any other place and the governments would lose their power.

[23:26] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[23:26] SPEAKER_01:
Taxes capital, or control this capital.

[23:28] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[23:29] SPEAKER_01:
And therefore it would inherently change the logic of violence.

[23:35] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[23:36] SPEAKER_01:
And yet, and this is also a very big idea in originally in crypto as well, you know, early days of Bitcoin, people would always bring out this up, this book, and yet it hasn't come to fruition.

[23:53] SPEAKER_00:
So...

[23:56] SPEAKER_01:
You know, just... in case it hasn't come to fruition. And so we have to ask ourselves why? Like I don't think the thesis is wrong. I think the thing that they missed was surveillance.

[24:15] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[24:15] SPEAKER_01:
Because the surveillance apparatus obviously can monitor all the flows, all the activity of people. And if you can do that, then now you have law enforcement.

[24:36] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[24:37] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah.

[24:43] SPEAKER_00:
And you know, you pause a sec for sure.

[24:48] SPEAKER_01:
I just need to listen to this.

[24:52] SPEAKER_00:
So, you know, from what I could see, you started traveling around the world a bit. You were in various different places at different times. I mean, were you going around meeting different people, building different things. How was that?

[25:13] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe which were living in squatted buildings.

[25:26] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[25:27] SPEAKER_01:
So you know, in Europe there's all these squatters laws which if a building is abandoned, you can move into the building and some squats, they last for years.

[25:39] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[25:40] SPEAKER_01:
And we'd get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam we had like a huge house.

[25:45] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[25:46] SPEAKER_01:
Imagine we're working on free software, you know, we're broke devs.

[25:51] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[25:51] SPEAKER_01:
It's a really useful lifeline to have. And also like living in the center of the cities. I mean like now even working in crypto, I look at the price of property and like it's ridiculous. Yeah, it's really ridiculous. I think societies really need that kind of stuff, like support people working on projects and software. It's a shame we don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had lots of places in Europe I could go to. We would have communities, people working on free software. In Barcelona, in London.

[26:32] SPEAKER_00:
London, I saw. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet?

[26:43] SPEAKER_01:
So actually I made the first CoinJoin and stealth implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. And so I was working on Bitcoin implementations, nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before.

[27:03] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[27:04] SPEAKER_01:
And then Dark Wallet, I was like, we need to create a product. Like, we need to create like a wallet or something.

[27:09] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[27:10] SPEAKER_01:
So that's why, you know, we made Dark Wallet.

[27:16] SPEAKER_00:
And when did you first meet Vitalik? Can you remember?

[27:21] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I was like... I say I was living in these squats around Europe.

[27:25] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[27:25] SPEAKER_01:
So after 2012, there was like, okay. There was like a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking and he was really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the Internet and I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. He's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him.

[27:46] SPEAKER_00:
Okay.

[27:46] SPEAKER_01:
It turns out he just walked onto a ferry without any documentation from Estonia across Europe.

[27:53] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[27:54] SPEAKER_01:
He came into England and he was like... he looked like Jesus and he had like long hair and long beard and stuff.

[28:00] SPEAKER_00:
Didn't look good for an entry.

[28:02] SPEAKER_01:
Anyway, Mihai.

[28:03] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah.

[28:04] SPEAKER_01:
Met him at the conference and was like enchanted by him. He was like, I just met this guy, your friend. He looks like Jesus, man. And then I can't remember like how it happened. But yeah, so then he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train.

[28:23] SPEAKER_00:
Okay.

[28:24] SPEAKER_01:
And so he ended up just walking into... around the building in London and that was like the building of the Occupy activists.

[28:31] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[28:32] SPEAKER_01:
I went there and then Mihai came and we just started living there and then we started setting up our hack lab right there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that are making these communities. They also had Calafou. So then they started...

[28:47] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Which was right near Barcelona. Right?

[28:51] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. So I was living with Mihai, I think for like a year in London.

[28:54] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[28:55] SPEAKER_01:
And then we went to Calafou in Barcelona.

[28:58] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[28:59] SPEAKER_01:
And Mihai co-founded Bitcoin Magazine with Vitalik.

[29:03] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[29:04] SPEAKER_01:
And so then I was also working on Bitcoin Magazine with them.

[29:08] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, I see. Right, right.

[29:10] SPEAKER_01:
You know, I didn't write loads of stuff. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But like, for example, I helped Mihai with the graphic design.

[29:18] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[29:18] SPEAKER_01:
Like some of the covers I helped design with.

[29:20] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[29:21] SPEAKER_01:
When we were high there, you know. So then anyway, we went to Calafou and then Vitalik came to live with us.

[29:29] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[29:30] SPEAKER_01:
And so then it was... and then there was like two other spots. Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine, and we were working together on projects.

[29:39] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[29:40] SPEAKER_01:
So...

[29:40] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[29:41] SPEAKER_01:
That was when we started Dark Wallet.

[29:43] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[29:43] SPEAKER_01:
And I knew Cody from the conference, so I said like, oh, Cody, let's start.

[29:49] SPEAKER_00:
Which conference? From the Amsterdam conference, the London one? The one that you... right, right. And was that the one that you organized?

[29:58] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague.

[30:00] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[30:00] SPEAKER_01:
2012 one in London as well.

[30:02] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right, yeah.

[30:04] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah, at the time we were working together in the hack lab. Mihai had his... I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure.

[30:13] SPEAKER_00:
Anyway, I think he did that later.

[30:15] SPEAKER_01:
Oh no, it was Agora or something.

[30:17] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[30:18] SPEAKER_01:
Anyway, he was creating like a... I guess what DarkFi is going to be now, like social network marketplace kind of thing.

[30:25] SPEAKER_00:
Okay.

[30:26] SPEAKER_01:
So then he was working on that and my friends were working on that and Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff.

[30:36] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[30:37] SPEAKER_01:
And then he was also working. They were working on the magazine.

[30:40] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[30:41] SPEAKER_01:
So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hack lab.

[30:44] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. Right.

[30:45] SPEAKER_01:
Then, you know, we co-founded Dark Wallet.

[30:49] SPEAKER_00:
Right. And Peter Todd as well.

[30:53] SPEAKER_01:
No, Peter Todd came later, later.

[30:55] SPEAKER_00:
Right, yeah.

[30:56] SPEAKER_01:
But you can see the original Dark Wallet from that video announcement video on YouTube and it has all the co-founders listed.

[31:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[31:06] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah, we were working on that and then about... so the CIC was a network of 10,000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia.

[31:19] SPEAKER_00:
Okay.

[31:19] SPEAKER_01:
The whole reason that was made is because there's like a big anarchist movement in Catalonia.

[31:23] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah.

[31:24] SPEAKER_01:
And they, you know, they'd been doing their thing for many years, right. So but then they started to mature as anarchists and they were like, so to think more about economics.

[31:35] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[31:35] SPEAKER_01:
Organization and stuff.

[31:36] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[31:37] SPEAKER_01:
It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists.

[31:41] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[31:41] SPEAKER_01:
They're a lot more organized than, for example, like London where it's just like...

[31:46] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[31:46] SPEAKER_01:
Crazy people going, you know, like...

[31:49] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[31:50] SPEAKER_01:
So they were like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives and operatives need to provide all the basic things and people need to live.

[32:01] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[32:01] SPEAKER_01:
And we would therefore become autonomous from the state.

[32:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[32:04] SPEAKER_01:
We'd become our own parallel system, which is cool, cool stuff. And so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allow people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted exchange outside of it. So they were like, we can use cryptocurrency to do that as that junction. So we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia.

[32:32] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[32:32] SPEAKER_01:
Cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside.

[32:42] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[32:42] SPEAKER_01:
Which... it was burnt down and the people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it from the owner.

[32:49] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[32:49] SPEAKER_01:
But then also there they had like... it's like a village, basically. It's massive. But they had like an industrial research sector, electronics. One of them was the hacking stuff, which is our hack lab, and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff.

[33:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[33:06] SPEAKER_01:
But anyway, as part of that research of the CIC and the tools that the CIC needed, that's how we came up with these ideas. Maybe you've seen the page it's on archive, right. On system one, talking about Bitlaw. Anyway, I'm not sure. Anyway, there's like a bunch of pages on our old wiki.

[33:27] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[33:27] SPEAKER_01:
And it's talking about, like, what the applications we need to build with Bitcoin.

[33:32] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[33:32] SPEAKER_01:
So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas.

[33:37] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[33:38] SPEAKER_01:
So then afterwards he left Mastercoin. First he asked the Bitcoin [devs], he was like, oh, okay, yeah, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing.

[33:50] SPEAKER_00:
No.

[33:51] SPEAKER_01:
And so then he went to Mastercoin and then he went to do...

[33:56] SPEAKER_00:
He was saying he'd also seen what happened with Counterparty, right. Where they were like chopping down the... the returns stuff. Yeah. It's like, okay, don't want to like build some meta protocol on top of this if it's gonna get like, they're gonna change the mind next month. And it's like, right, you know, your protocol's dead.

[34:17] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. So, yeah, so they. Then when they were making Ethereum, that's, you know, with Anthony Di Iorio and all those people.

[34:32] SPEAKER_00:
Well, yeah.

[34:32] SPEAKER_01:
So I mean, also a bit before the first Dark Wallet.

[34:37] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right.

[34:39] SPEAKER_01:
Was in Milan.

[34:41] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, I was going to mention. So Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit, right.

[34:48] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, we were all together. We were traveling together and go to these places. But anyway, Macao's also like a really big gambling...

[34:58] SPEAKER_00:
Huh?

[34:59] SPEAKER_01:
No gambling. Oh no, in Milan.

[35:01] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, I thought you said...

[35:02] SPEAKER_01:
Right. It's a community center called Macao.

[35:05] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, I see.

[35:06] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. It's huge as well. It used to be a meat processing plant but anyway, they have loads of cultural things there. But yeah, they let us use it for a month to do our event.

[35:16] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[35:16] SPEAKER_01:
So that's when Taylor...

[35:18] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, right.

[35:20] SPEAKER_01:
A lot of those early Ethereum guys, right.

[35:23] SPEAKER_00:
Hive, Hive Wallet.

[35:25] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, they came there and that's how they all met each other.

[35:28] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[35:28] SPEAKER_01:
The early co-founders.

[35:30] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[35:30] SPEAKER_01:
And then also Richard Stott.

[35:34] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[35:35] SPEAKER_01:
Designer.

[35:35] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[35:36] SPEAKER_01:
He was also my friend from London.

[35:38] SPEAKER_00:
Oh, right.

[35:38] SPEAKER_01:
That's how Mihai met him.

[35:40] SPEAKER_00:
I see.

[35:40] SPEAKER_01:
And Gav Wood also came to visit us in London.

[35:44] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. So Vitalik had shared like a few years ago, shared early his first communications with Gav where Gav contacted him on 19th December 2013 through About Me and Gav said, where are you with Ethereum? I can do C++ basically. And then four days later he'd created his repo to start working on cpp-ethereum. But over the other bit I forgot there is: Johnny gave me the heads up, that's what he said. Which was Johnny Bitcoin who he had met through you, right. So Gav came to the squat at some point in London.

[36:49] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, yeah. We were hanging out because he said he's a KDE developer.

[36:54] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[36:54] SPEAKER_01:
He's written the lirc.

[36:56] SPEAKER_00:
Right. I think in one of the interviews he said I'm gonna give my KDE email because it'll like, that'll give me credit.

[37:06] SPEAKER_01:
Oh yeah, yeah, it did, it did. I was like impressed by it. I was like, whoa, he's got a KDE email.

[37:13] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[37:13] SPEAKER_01:
That's impressive.

[37:14] SPEAKER_00:
That's right.

[37:15] SPEAKER_01:
So that's funny.

[37:20] SPEAKER_00:
It did. So he came along and then I guess, you know, he was talking to Johnny and Johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

[37:34] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I also... when I visited them in Anthony Di Iorio's. That's where that hackathon...

[37:44] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, so yeah.

[37:46] SPEAKER_01:
Is Anthony Di Iorio a co-founder of Ethereum?

[37:49] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. So put money into Ethereum. Yeah, he did.

[37:52] SPEAKER_01:
What happened to that money?

[37:53] SPEAKER_00:
Like... he did. Yeah, he got it. So he lent, he basically lent money to the project for those early months of development and he did get paid back out of the crowdsale. There was some court case where it was like, did he get it back as Bitcoin or as fiat? You know, there was some kind of like disagreement on that, but that got finished off. But yeah, the timeline was Vitalik did the white paper in about November 2013. He shared it with a bunch of people. Don't know if he shared it with you, if you were on that list of people who got it early. Oh right, the Bitlaw. Yeah, right. So just a whole bunch of different things. Transparency arbitration, auditing and transparency multisigs. Yeah. A whole bunch of cryptocurrency 2.0 use cases.

[39:01] SPEAKER_01:
So they did ask me to be the lead Ethereum dev.

[39:04] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[39:05] SPEAKER_01:
But I just didn't. I was like, we can build this on Bitcoin.

[39:08] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right. Why do you need a new thing?

[39:11] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, because I know you can build it on Bitcoin right. At the time.

[39:16] SPEAKER_00:
But yeah, that December and I kept...

[39:18] SPEAKER_01:
I kept also pressing the guy, right. To explain to me what it can be used for.

[39:24] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[39:24] SPEAKER_01:
And he just kind of in frustration just went, marriage contracts, like when...

[39:33] SPEAKER_00:
Not, not so appealing. No, no, don't see the point.

[39:36] SPEAKER_01:
Right.

[39:37] SPEAKER_00:
But yeah, December.

[39:38] SPEAKER_01:
It's interesting because sometimes you can be too close minded about things.

[39:42] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right. But yeah, that December, you know, after he shared the white paper around, various people started gathering around.

[39:49] SPEAKER_01:
I think what led to Ethereum's success was having a token. Having the token is like really good because it allows the project to accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin we always broke.

[40:01] SPEAKER_00:
Right, right, right. Yeah. I mean those early months, you know, no one was being paid on Ethereum either. And it's like we will have a token sale, you will get paid back. But you know, it's hope and a dream. But the hackathon that you're talking about was in April of 2014 in Toronto. So Anthony Di Iorio running that. He'd got Bitcoin Decentral sort of co-working space and venue. There were a bunch of projects running out of there. It was kind of like, yeah, businesses running. I mean, I don't know how great businesses they were, projects were operating out of there. And then one of the things that they did was organize this first Canadian Bitcoin conference to which it's funny, so he'd got the space. He was the head of the Bitcoin Association of Canada, the Bitcoin Association were running the conference. Ethereum were the main sponsor for the conference. So it was like his space, his organization, his conference, his sponsors. And somebody said at some point, is this how marketing works? That you've just got all these different hands that are all paying each other? It's like, oh, there's a lot of activity here, but it's all from that same source. But yeah, but there was a hackathon.

[41:37] SPEAKER_01:
So he did get axed or not?

[41:42] SPEAKER_00:
I don't know. But so there was the hackathon that you were at, you and Cody presenting, you know, Dark... well, I guess it was Dark Market, wasn't it, that you'd...

[41:57] SPEAKER_01:
Got that one which became OpenBazaar.

[42:00] SPEAKER_00:
Right. And then there was the main conference. So, yes, the aforementioned Peter Todd was there, Andreas Antonopoulos, Dave Johnston, you got Adam B. Levine as well and a bunch of others. But that conference was also the only conference where there was ever like an Ethereum store, you know, like the expo area. They were like, hey, we're like a business, right? It's like, here's a business project. At that point, Anthony's thought and expectation was like, all of this is going to happen out of Toronto. Right? Ethereum is just one of n projects that are happening out of Bitcoin Decentral. But lots of the projects in that hackathon were on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not.

[43:06] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, that's why I said didn't need to be.

[43:08] SPEAKER_00:
No, no.

[43:09] SPEAKER_01:
The thing is, I was quite an expert in Bitcoin, so obviously it's difficult for people who don't know Bitcoin deeply to do those things. So that's the thing I missed is actually having something with like a language, etc. It's easier for people.

[43:28] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, can you remember what the vibe was like at that conference in Toronto compared to other Bitcoin conferences you've been at?

[43:39] SPEAKER_01:
It was a fun conference. Wasn't like an exceptional conference. Yeah, I had a good time. I was just going around chatting to people. Yeah, it's good.

[43:48] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

[43:50] SPEAKER_01:
I remember Adam Levine and Stephanie and Andreas.

[43:55] SPEAKER_00:
Right? Yeah.

[43:56] SPEAKER_01:
Hanging out with each other a lot.

[43:57] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah. So I mean, I guess, you know, Ethereum kind of kept ticking along there. Like, was that something happening in parallel or were you still kind of crossing paths with these people?

[44:16] SPEAKER_01:
Through that year, i interacted with Ethereum after that.

[44:18] SPEAKER_00:
No, no, yeah. And I mean in terms of...

[44:26] SPEAKER_01:
Like, I think all the money started to come in and they all started to go. And then I was in Europe.

[44:32] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[44:32] SPEAKER_01:
Then I went to Syria, so.

[44:34] SPEAKER_00:
Yes, yes. But yeah, I mean the timeline of that was Ethereum white paper November, kind of team starting together about December. BTC Miami. Were you at BTC Miami in January? Did you go to that one?

[44:51] SPEAKER_01:
No, I went to the Toronto thing.

[44:54] SPEAKER_00:
Right. So then, yeah, Toronto in April and the crowdsale actually was like July, August-ish of 2014. And then you had the Ethereum Foundation starting to do the crowdsale and then yeah, early contributors got paid back for their work in those prior months and you know, Ethereum went live.

[45:28] SPEAKER_01:
We did Dark Market just purely for money.

[45:31] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[45:32] SPEAKER_01:
Because, you know, 15k.

[45:35] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[45:36] SPEAKER_01:
So that was pretty cool.

[45:38] SPEAKER_00:
And, I mean with Dark Wallet, like what kind of time span were you working on that for?

[45:48] SPEAKER_01:
We, I think we started in 2013 and then we were working on it all the way to the end of 2014.

[45:56] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[45:57] SPEAKER_01:
And we released an alpha, which crowdfunding was for the alpha. We never released the stable.

[46:02] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[46:03] SPEAKER_01:
And that's mainly because I went to Syria, but I thought the dev team would at least just finish it, you know.

[46:09] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[46:10] SPEAKER_01:
They had enough money and everything.

[46:11] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Didn't happen.

[46:13] SPEAKER_01:
They kind of like it just fizzled out without my presence, which is like, it's a failing of my leadership not to create an organization that doesn't fizzle out when one person disappears. So...

[46:26] SPEAKER_00:
And with Libbitcoin, was that ongoing as well as what you were doing?

[46:30] SPEAKER_01:
So it's had like serious technical innovation in there.

[46:34] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[46:34] SPEAKER_01:
Has like the fastest blockchain database of any Bitcoin node. And this guy, Eric Voskuil, who's really skilled developer, he came and he like took on that mission and he's still continuing it. Yeah, he's just really into it. I've tried a few times to poach him to Darkfi, zk, other stuff. He's a really good developer, but he's just like, no, I just like Bitcoin.

[46:58] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[46:59] SPEAKER_01:
I just work on Libbitcoin. So yeah, he's laser focused on that.

[47:03] SPEAKER_00:
Yes. I got to meet him in person for the first time last year I think after Fair Play.

[47:10] SPEAKER_01:
Lots of... you know me like laser-focused.

[47:16] SPEAKER_00:
Right. Yeah. Well, I mean he's just been at that for 10 years.

[47:22] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, it's crazy.

[47:23] SPEAKER_00:
It will be 10 years.

[47:25] SPEAKER_01:
Imagine working on one project.

[47:27] SPEAKER_00:
And also, you know, he's like, yeah, it's not production ready yet.

[47:33] SPEAKER_01:
He is a really good developer.

[47:34] SPEAKER_00:
But yeah, he is and he's also published some stats, you know, the last year or so.

[47:40] SPEAKER_01:
They just need money really.

[47:42] SPEAKER_00:
I mean, but he's cool with it as well. He's just like, yeah, you know, I'm just working and I'll keep working until it's done. And I mean he's got to the point where he's published some stats in the last year or so and you know, it's just massively better. You know, it's just the whole thing rethought. Right. And stripped down and built up from that base. Yeah, yeah. So I mean early days of Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? Like having seen it being birthed. What's Ethereum to you?

[48:24] SPEAKER_01:
It is the closest expression of the Agora as existing crypto. Now they've done a lot of really good research. I think Ethereum needs to develop a political philosophy. The one with Ethereum is very historical. Like if you do science you need evidence to support your theories. It's all well and good having models, abstract deductive mathematical models, but you need to back test your ideas. And when we talk about social systems, what that is is history. The thing is with Ethereum, whenever they talk about history, it's always like the most minor or like society most minor examples that are completely inoffensive because they don't want to take a stance on anything. And I don't think you can be like that. I think you have to go deep into things, take them apart, etc. So I think that's really harming them especially they want to change the world, do things of social benefit. That's why they're making now these Zuzalu, you know, these kind of network state communities. Yeah they're trying to recreate the Calafou thing, the Calafou experience. Yeah where we were developing tools for the CIC, the cooperatives and that allowed us to see what people need. So I respect the intention but I think the problem is, when you make a project, you don't gather a group of people together and go what should we do. First you come up with the idea, you develop the idea and then you recruit people for roles to fulfill that objective, that mission. So they're doing the opposite. They're trying to bring loads of people together and see what happens. And I think there's like the reason why Ethereum has these like roadmap diagrams, which are like these arcane plots of stuff, but it's like, what's the organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one.

[50:44] SPEAKER_00:
So anyway, no, I mean, it's been a criticism I've had for a number of years is you'll see Vitalik, you know, plop out this big roadmap diagram thing. And I remember first looking at it and there were three little boxes in the top corner that were transition to proof of stake. Three boxes that took eight years and you've got 50 odd things on this diagram. And it's like there's decades and decades of work to do all of this. And also you know that the plan is going to change every year anyway. Like, you're never going to get to the end of that. And it's like, yeah, what's feature complete? What are you aiming for? When's good enough?

[51:29] SPEAKER_01:
I also think Ethereum needs to be more product focused.

[51:33] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[51:33] SPEAKER_01:
I don't mean product focused by like paying lots of useless focus groups or like UI designers that used to work at Facebook or something like that.

[51:43] SPEAKER_00:
I mean, right.

[51:44] SPEAKER_01:
Actually going, you know, what is it we want to do?

[51:48] SPEAKER_00:
Yes.

[51:49] SPEAKER_01:
How do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective and aggressively pursue...

[51:54] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[51:55] SPEAKER_01:
Like one or two use cases. Deliver them.

[51:58] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[51:58] SPEAKER_01:
And expand that. Like, Ethereum was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything and it would succeed. And you know, they did really well. But the thing is, people see what Ethereum did and they think that's gospel for how to start a new project in crypto. It's like the Ethereum playbook and I think that's maybe hampering a lot of people. And the Ethereum early on was like, we're apolitical, we're a neutral technology.

[52:42] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. You know, blah, blah, application platform.

[52:46] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. And I think it just didn't... it hasn't. They need to be more strategic.

[52:53] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[52:53] SPEAKER_01:
Like when you make a project, you have an end goal that you want to get to. You have a strategy.

[53:00] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah.

[53:00] SPEAKER_01:
And you have a roadmap and you have milestones in the roadmap.

[53:03] SPEAKER_00:
Yes.

[53:04] SPEAKER_01:
And I think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications and the people using them.

[53:13] SPEAKER_00:
Right.

[53:13] SPEAKER_01:
So yeah, when you develop applications and you field them, then you get, you see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, you know, when you give technology to the hands of technologists and this is what Ethereum has also suffered from.

[53:30] SPEAKER_00:
They're like kind of builds, build stuff that's interesting to them.

[53:33] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, exactly. And again it becomes arcane, like, oh, we need this, then we need this and we need this and we need this. And it's like actually it doesn't even fulfill any of the use cases that...

[53:43] SPEAKER_00:
Well, no, no, no, I mean it shouldn't be hard. Right. It's thinking, okay, well who are our users and what do they want to do and let's do that.

[53:54] SPEAKER_01:
It's really difficult to talk to like the Ethereum clique core thing, you know, it's very cliquey. So they have a big political problem, I think.

[54:03] SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, yeah. And I think that sort of almost unbounded scope is problematic. Something Nick Szabo talks about is the idea of argument surface. So he's drawing an analogy with attack surface for security stuff and is saying on a social level, the argument surface for a system is basically like, how much stuff is there that's like up for grabs, that's not defined, that you can have a reasonable argument about? We should do this, we should do that, we should do the other. And if you have a really well defined system, right, where it's very clear what this thing is for and what it's meant to do and like, have we met these needs or not? You don't have all the arguments because you all know what you're building. You don't fuck about like changing the design or plans or anything because you've all got that common goal. So then the criticism there of Ethereum is that there's almost infinite arguments surface. It become like a parliament, right. So you've all got protocol politicians and lobbying groups and you can sit and argue about them for years on end of like, oh, we should have this feature, that feature, this protocol, the other. And a lot of those aren't necessarily actually moving you to something that is actually solving real use case problems that's actually getting people using the tech. Okay, well, thanks. Well, thank you very much for your time. Would you like to just say a little bit about DarkFi before we wrap?

[55:50] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. DarkFi's L1, right? Oh, yeah, sorry. DarkFi's an L1. You can do everything with it, but anonymous. So you know, you can buy and sell. You can make anonymous styles do OTC, etc. That's what we need to build the agora.

[56:14] SPEAKER_00:
So I've heard some people say, perhaps Monero with smart contracts, would that be reasonable?

[56:22] SPEAKER_01:
But we're not using Ring signatures, we're using this.

[56:25] SPEAKER_00:
So Zcash with smart contracts?

[56:30] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. Well, yeah, maybe. Yeah.

[56:34] SPEAKER_00:
Okay. Thanks so much.

[56:36] SPEAKER_01:
Thank you.
