SPEAKER_01: So , hello , Bob . So , yes , I'm Bob Summerwill , recording here at Devcon Prague for Early Days of Ethereum . And I have here , Jakub Good . good , enough ? Good Yes . Yes . there you go . So , we've known each other about three years or so now . I think we did meet in Bogota in for Devcon 6 for the first time , where you introduced yourself , I was not where , introduced yourself introduced yourself was not aware not of your background and role of your background and role , but , but . specifically , specifically , I , you were an intern at Dev in Berlin in late 2015 , and you also attended Devcon 1 . So how did you come to be involved with Ethereum at that time ?

SPEAKER_00: Oh , Thank you for the intro and good question . it was in Bogota . I think I knew about you or of you for longer than since then , But of you , for longer than then , you , with . I think were . you , you were chatting with someone , someone and talking about Florian Glatz maybe , and talking about the old days . And I and just jumped in because I know Florian and found out that we have a shared interest in the old days of Ethereum . and , I did my internship working on working the Python client , back , starting September or August , 2015 . I think it was like maybe August to like December maybe , was August to December . It was August couple to December after . It was And a couple of weeks after mainnet launched . And the first week I was there was when there was like the first , big fork where the Go client forked , forked from the , C++ C and Python client Python . There was a chain split on mainnet ? Yes . and it happened , I think , the second day I was there . and that was the same day that there was a meetup planned in the , office in . Right . Right , so everything was extremely chaotic and people arrived at the office for the meetup , and nothing happened for a good amount for time the meetup of time , and nothing happened the corner for , a I was good , amount , of time . and eventually I was just sitting there in the corner working , and I was like , no , we can't do this because there's so many people who are just looking like , Some started Some leaving . So I kind of ad hoc jumped in and gave a presentation on Ethereum back then that I that had given , a couple of weeks before back in Copenhagen . And prior

SPEAKER_01: to your internship ?

SPEAKER_00: I gave the presentation prior to my internship because I started a Copenhagen Ethereum meetup group . Oh Ethereum , goodness . So when do you think that started ? I know exactly when it started . It . started do you think that ,

SPEAKER_01: started

SPEAKER_00: 2015 . Right

SPEAKER_01: , I

SPEAKER_00: . And the reason know got into Ethereum exactly I was when it started . It started on the 14th of July , 2015 . Right , right . And the reason I got into Ethereum was I was studying computer science . And I knew about Bitcoin and thought it would be interesting to write my bachelor thesis on Bitcoin .

SPEAKER_01: So this was an internship while you were still doing an undergraduate an ?

SPEAKER_00: It was an internship that I got because I wrote my bachelor thesis on Ethereum in the spring of 2015 . So you had graduated in the spring of 2015 . but just a bachelor . bachelor . Right . And because the ecosystem , speak so speak , so small back then . right . because , I the Ethereum Foundation during the internship ecosystem Like right , so to speak , was so then back then

SPEAKER_01: . Right , right ,

SPEAKER_00: , I . We were in contact with the Ethereum Foundation during the internship . Like right I mean I think I opened my first issue in March 2015 . Right To the C++ client or something like that . so , I , I think I've , the . I've known of Ethereum since end of 2014 , but anyway . we wrote this bachelor and two of my friends two and , and we shared it with . and wrote this bachelor And I thesis and . me and only one . Like . was tired of , two of my . , my friends and we sent we shared it with the foundation , and then we got internships . Right , and I was the only one . Like I was tired of already , only after a bachelor , and the other two guys wanted to continue , so I was like , I'm gonna to do this . and a couple weeks later , I moved to , Berlin to Berlin to do my internship working on the Python on client Python . Right , right , And , a very , time . Like thinking back now , I'm sad I didn't write down more things or take more pictures or appreciate some of the things a little bit more . But I also had no idea that things would get as big as they are right that was , very , time . Like , now . sad I more things or more very or take . pictures or appreciate some of the things a little bit more . But I also time no idea that . Like get as Thinking as back are . now , I'm sad I didn't write down more things more or , or to take more pictures or appreciate some of the things a little bit more . But I also had no idea that things would get as big as they are right are . but , I enjoyed it a lot .

SPEAKER_01: I mean , it was primarily was primarily C C++ development under Gav that was happening in that office , right . But . But also Felix Lange , I know , was there on the Geth team . and then some different people . And then some . Simonson , I think he was doing . stuff . Solidity team was also there . I . I were under the C++ team C++ was that's doing . Go , they were there stuff And Remix . Well , Mix , sorry , at the time

SPEAKER_00: , And , the Solidity team was also there . I think they were under the C++ team plus that's right Then . but they were there . And there Remix as well . well . Mix . sorry , sorry , at the time . and I also remember the Mist , I guess . At least Fabian Vogelsteller was also around . So there was a good amount of different . people around . And also , quite often people would come and quite often visit from other places . I remember a couple of times Christoph Jentzsch came to visit . there was one time where I think he arrived at midnight or something like that . And . was no one else at the office . I was doing my internship , and I think he came late afternoon . to visit . There was one time where . I think he arrived at midnight or something like that , and there was no one else at the office . I was doing my internship , and I think he wrote late afternoon . He wrote on the Skype channel if there would be someone around and that he was a little bit delayed or whatever . Right , right . So I was just like , oh , it's fine . I had nothing I to do in Berlin anyway Berlin . I had like the smallest room , just like a small room with a bed , nothing else . So I enjoyed spending a lot of time in the office and I had , I would usually just stay in the office . then . go home just sleep because the office was quite nice . So , Right , so , I had one night where him into the I think I left , would i would stay in the office the office . and then just go home and sleep because the office was quite nice . Right testing as well , wasn't it ? Right , so , I had one night where one I think I left , him into the office at office at midnight and we had , had a little bit of a chat . I got to know him . Right , he told me about all the testing he was doing and how , they just json data that they fed to the were and testing that was from the c plus client , i know , that cpp Ethereum was leading and the tests were . Right , it was quite interesting those against . and that's cross-client testing as , it , if I remember correctly , like he was building a lot of just JSON data that they fed to the client . that was from the C++ client . I know that C++ Ethereum was leading and the tests were generated from that , but then running those against the Python and Geth clients . Probably . that sounds about right about But the client . That

SPEAKER_01: was

SPEAKER_00: from the C++

SPEAKER_01: client . I know that . CPP Ethereum was leading and the tests were generated from that , but then running those against the Python and Geth and clients .

SPEAKER_00: Probably , that sounds about sounds right . But , I have are there a lot of small stories . like we you told me , we don't have too much time , and I'll try to keep it short . But , you , I , of . So , of , of 2015 . So , of , 2015 . So , if i you think back to like to the had the spend most where you know those interesting it had those going things for a year . kind that was the kind happened of the previous year , that of Foundation had it been formed and you was had cost crowd sale , like cost-cutting like nearly all . of cutting money was , gone measures , I measures of course of course being in lucky enough quite participate fast . 1 . looking And also at experience the kind of spend split where that . was . place you at know this , point it in had been time going because year the . Foundation It . It , almost ran , of money was . And was , the . the July C++ team was kind of cut of . right of . the c plus team was kind of , cut

SPEAKER_00: and also experience the previous year split that was taking place at this point in time the because Foundation had I almost and been ran the out of formed money nearly all . And , that's the . The C++ team was like kind all of cut , cut off . And you also Ming Chan you also had , you know , 2015 . So her first official date was 1st of August , of , looking . the spend where it , you had those kind of cost cutting measures coming in , it of looking at the spend year . you know , it had been the ,

SPEAKER_01: the

SPEAKER_01: it had been a year a year . It was , it was the July of the previous year that the foundation had been formed and you had the crowd but , but nearly all of the money was gone ,

SPEAKER_00: I think that was also maybe not the most responsible usage of couple of weeks money before that , I was , told , sorry , but we can't do it also anyway because like we don't the have the Bitcoin price was doing really poorly . that's right . The Ether price itself was also , I think it dipped below the pre-sale price at some point . And money Year like and anymore . Well , because they were year getting very rapidly in the . you've , no accumulation . funding , but , cut I didn't have any or interactions with Ming back then even . So . shut , one thing I down just remembered now , I entirely was supposed to have , done my internship on I the C++ think team . probably already , or that was coming . so that's why it in London ended up being the . team instead because there was some like September year in and you've accumulation no accumulation , but , I didn't have any interactions with , Ming back Ming back then . so maybe , one thing I just remembered now : I was supposed to have my internship on the C++ team in London lot of fun kind of following how people came and went and went into Gavin's office and had a chat there with him and Jutta or whatever . And I didn't really know in the , but . couple , weeks before . A couple of weeks before do it , because we , the money anymore , we . Well , because were getting . rapidly . money , even . down , I , probably already . Or that even coming , I . the Python . with the there was , budget . But , like sitting as the there , some budget . But , like sitting as the consider joining there

SPEAKER_01: or whatever think .

SPEAKER_00: , probably already or that was coming . pre-formation of what , later . Parity . so that's why it ended up being the Python team instead because there was some budget . but , like sitting as the only person working on the Python client in that office in my small corner , I had a lot a lot of kind of . following later how people . and went and , went into I Gavin's office and had a chat there with him . And or whatever . And I didn't really think in the beginning what was going on I until I asked if I wanted to come in and talk . and it was like presenting ideas . of what ideas of like what would happen next with the C++ team and wanted That or whatever . there or whatever . of . That was sort what , So . I was witnessing that without knowing what was going on . I insight into like the finances of the Foundation or anything like that . I only found out about most of those things later . so , I mean maybe interesting to see , so . mean , let's maybe let's talk about Devcon 1 . So the first Devcon was so the first Devcon was first Devcon was Devcon , which happened in November 2014 before your time , which was like , presenting ideas of like what would happen next with the closed event plus and wanted Foundation people to but broader consider but , I Devcon , interesting to see . so I mean let maybe let's , let's talk about Devcon ones so , you'd have , this so the first Devcon was Devcon zero happened in November 2015 , in London . it had got announced early in the year and got cancelled because of this funding squeeze . But then , but . broader ecosystem . So that was sort It of in November 2015 the pre in pre . of , November of , announced became . F 2014 Core later up . of filled that , gap and did some I organizing and So that . think So did . organizing That ,

SPEAKER_01: that

SPEAKER_00: so

SPEAKER_01: was

SPEAKER_00: which I

SPEAKER_01: in November of was

SPEAKER_00: witnessing that without knowing what

SPEAKER_01: the was going 2014 before your time , which was the closed event mainly Ethereum Foundation

SPEAKER_00: on

SPEAKER_01: people , but some broader ecosystem people . But then Devcon 1 happened in November 2015 the London . It had got announced early in the

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_01: year and got cancelled because of

SPEAKER_00: I found out about most of those things later . closed the

SPEAKER_01: event ,

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: mainly

SPEAKER_00: of

SPEAKER_01: Ethereum

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: foundation people

SPEAKER_00: of

SPEAKER_01: ,

SPEAKER_00: the

SPEAKER_01: but some

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: broader

SPEAKER_00: foundation

SPEAKER_01: ecosystem

SPEAKER_00: or

SPEAKER_01: people .

SPEAKER_00: anything

SPEAKER_01: but

SPEAKER_00: like

SPEAKER_01: then

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: Devcon one

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_01: happened

SPEAKER_00: i

SPEAKER_01: in

SPEAKER_00: only

SPEAKER_01: november 2015

SPEAKER_00: so

SPEAKER_01: ,

SPEAKER_00: out

SPEAKER_01: ,

SPEAKER_00: about

SPEAKER_01: in

SPEAKER_00: most

SPEAKER_01: London

SPEAKER_00: of

SPEAKER_01: .

SPEAKER_00: maybe

SPEAKER_01: ,

SPEAKER_00: things

SPEAKER_01: it had got

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: announced

SPEAKER_00: later

SPEAKER_01: early

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_01: in the year

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: and got

SPEAKER_00: but

SPEAKER_01: cancelled

SPEAKER_00: so

SPEAKER_01: because of

SPEAKER_00: , i

SPEAKER_01: mean

SPEAKER_00: maybe interesting to see . so i mean let maybe

SPEAKER_01: but some broader ecosystem people . But then Devcon one

SPEAKER_00: that year . I was maybe let's , let's talk about Devcon 1 . So , you'd have , this so the first Devcon was not zero , present happened in

SPEAKER_01: November

SPEAKER_00: myself before your time , which was the closed , I you know , closed event , mainly Ethereum foundation people , but some broader ecosystem people . But then Devcon 1 happened in couldn't 2015 , in London . it afford to announced early go or whatever at the time . time That I couldn't afford to go or whatever ,

SPEAKER_00: but then ConsenSys stepped but I and filled funding because of this funding squeeze . But then , ConsenSys stepped watched and filled that

SPEAKER_01: So

SPEAKER_00: gap and did some organizing .

SPEAKER_01: So

SPEAKER_00: a livestream lot

SPEAKER_01: that

SPEAKER_00: of

SPEAKER_01: the was livestream in November of that year . I was not present myself . I That I couldn't afford to go or whatever at the time but I watched a lot of the . But that was livestream but you know that was a really very seminal conference . So how was that ? It was for me it was . I've never been good at sitting still on a chair for a long period of time . But time . But there I was at every talk from the beginning in the morning until the end . I think I missed one talk because I had to go catch my flight So go back on the how day how was ? It catch my flight to go back on the last day . was it was I was just and there and sucking and all of and ideas . visions . And it was really , I think before that I had an idea that amazing thought it . be of to . working with I or the in really , I in the that the had an idea that I thought it would be interesting to continue working morning Ethereum or in until the end . I think I missed one talk Ethereum because I missed one talk because space had to go catch my . to go back on the last day , But Or . like but after it Devcon 1 . . I was like , I have to do this . Like , there's no other way for me . I'm not , ideas and visions . And it was really . I think before that I an idea that I thought it would be interesting be interesting to be continue to continue Ethereum or the university other . I'm not going to do anything

SPEAKER_00: back to the university . I'm not going to do . else . This is what I'm going to . Because it do this . There s no other way for me . I m not going back to the university . I m not going to do anything else . I'm is what I m going to do . Because it was

SPEAKER_00: a full day , or three full days , of

SPEAKER_00: full

SPEAKER_00: day or three full days just sitting there and people presenting ideas their ideas i remember . I remember clearly , like , was Maker , was presented . like , i was like , we did like . coins . amazing , amazing . I , i think Fabian Vogelsteller and Alex van de Sande and some de people presented the ERC-20 token Sande , or the early Sande of it . and which , this has also become some a big part of Ethereum some . other I people presented the ERC-20 token standard , or the early version of it , which , this . has , early version . it , of , of , Ethereum . this , also . this is such a of now . I , i , I'm , sure , And . course , the and of course , the . project , there's no other way for me . I'm not I back was working on . the people there , like , we were presenting the Raiden Network , which got a lot of very good feedback as well . as well , it ? so , well , right ? well , right ? I is what I'm to do . was it was a full day , or three full days , not just so sold on Hydrochain back their ideas . I remember clearly , like , there was like then a Maker , was presented . Like , I was like , we did because stable coins it Like , was Amazing . like . aimed at like . One , of one of the first very first permissioned Ethereum . Exactly . It was like . like It was like a , round robin kind of algorithm . And now it seems like seems like something people would have used these days . So , only 10 years too early

SPEAKER_00: Fabian and Focus Stella and Alex van . Exactly . It was , a , of algorithm . but back to round robin kind . algorithm . and of , algorithm . and Devcon 1 , I would have used , days , So . so only 10 years , too early , but back to standard , too early , but back to , to Devcon 1 , I was just thinking about it after or our conversation last night , that Devcon 1 , the it was just about the early version of it , which , This has also . technology is such a technology part the of Ethereum now . I think maybe Gnosis , not sure , technology , and . course , the project I was working Like , the people there , like , we were presenting , Like the Raiden network , which got a lot of Like very good feedback as well . so it was it I so Hydrochain as well I , right think , I was maybe not so sold on Hydrochain maybe there were three booths or were or something three something like . like that , A couple of stickers . Like , I barely remember I just remember ? was the name of the project the Like ? barely . I block I remember I they had I ? Strato . like BlockApps . BlockApps remember I remember they had . I think . app . a small booth , I think . Right , I . Some stickers think . Some

SPEAKER_00: . Some , very sad that I lost that sticker . Right . But , what was . remember , had a name booth , I

SPEAKER_01: of the Very project Haskell project ? Block App . Strato , block I remember they had , like , a small booth . I think , Right , right . Some stickers . Very sad that I lost that sticker . Right . But , sad

SPEAKER_00: ,

SPEAKER_01: that I

SPEAKER_01: , other . sticker Right .

SPEAKER_00: But , other than that , it was just like . just people . There was one stage and everyone was , like , in the same room . more yes , and in the evenings , people would go out , go out for dinner maybe , but there was not a single side event . There . was kind was and that was not a of fun . Like a single party you got , really , well , it was . was . was . days , I felt . people was , There was , many inspired people and ideas , a people only talked about tech . talk think . was like one a . a little bit weird this like Free just Bunk . guy who . a , gun on the stage , this like . Free My Bank , right dinners and a couple of couple of shepherd's pies talk of with a guy shepherd's who had a t-shirt pies gun on the somewhere stage , this . like , it was really just the golden days , I felt like fun There were . many inspired people and ideas Who and people only talked about had like a very different energy than everybody else . It felt like he was the only one who knew how to give a talk and how to sell . And back then I , very different energy than everybody else . It felt like he was the only one who knew how to give a talk and had a t-shirt gun on the stage how to my bunk who had a very different energy than everybody else . It felt like he was the only one who knew how to give a talk and how who

SPEAKER_00: knew how to go out for go dinner give dinner , but there was a how to sell . And back then I thought it was way not much . but now it's a everyone else is doing . And the single of it's was so bad as party . right to look back . but . I was thinking Glory that and . I , comparing days , let's say , Devcon 2 . I was comparing with , let's It , Devcon 2 . Right . I was at Devcon 2 there just dinners and a couple of , shepherd's maybe somewhere . Right . and that was kind of like . Like , you . You got to know people , a like , really . really , well , was so bad as well , to look back . But , I was thinking about that and then I was comparing with , let s say , Devcon 2 . I think at Devcon 2 there were maybe a couple of parties . I think ConsenSys had like a bar somewhere the golden days . I felt like . There was , so where inspired people and ideas , and people only talked about tech . we think there was . like . one . a would bit weird product . hype . talk with a usually go . It was still not that big . Still not that big . , still only one I think I had like at Devcon 2 . where we bar somewhere where

SPEAKER_00: guy who had a T shirt . on the stage , that big this like free my bunk 2 . stage . Who had like a very different energy . everybody . else . It , like he was the only one who knew how Right to give a talk and how to sell . And back . then I still it was , too much , but now , it's what everyone else is that's doing . And the quality of was only one as well . Still only , look back , stage , I was thinking about that and then I , comparing with , let's say , Devcon I think , at Devcon 2 . There was just , main stage . quite , quite doable . doable , quite and then I . And then I defcon 2 think at Devcon 3 in Cancun , that was where you could really feel , now there's a lot of money in this space because like there were parties right and left . And , the rest is history , right ? right ? That's right . It's been quite crazy to see this development as well of like events and parties at the different DevCons , how popular things got . But absolutely , for me , the Devcon 1 is like one of my best memories of these 10 years , simply because it was a so measuring on the amount of events and parties at the were parties different Devcons , how popular things got . But absolutely for me , how popular , is got . But absolutely bar for like , the Devcon one somewhere is like one of would my best memories . It 10 was years of not that my big . best , memories still only of one stage these , I think , 10 at Devcon 2 , There years because just , one it simply stage . because was , it quite , quite was doable just , and so then I think at inspiring Devcon 3 in inspiring Cancun and that was and motivating you could and really , I there's , a lot of I money in this space because like there were would right and left , and , say the rest is history say , right ? That's right . It's . quite crazy to see . this development as well of like And on the amount of And events and parties

SPEAKER_00: a lot of the people you have on your list were around there . Like have , it's quite cool . I recently found out that someone I got to know a couple of years ago only , who's also doing some cool stuff , he was around on . Like , we didn't meet each other . I didn't know him . I only found out like two years ago , but he had also , and he said he didn't see almost any your because he was sitting in list were around there I only found out like two years . But he had also he said he didn Like see almost any talks because . it's quite cool . And I recently found out recently found out that someone I got to know or a couple of years , only , who's also doing some cool , he was around there . Like we didn't meet each other . I didn't know him . I only found out like two years ago , but he had also , and he said he the back . trying to Like we didn't meet each other . I didn't know him . didn't see almost any talks because the was sitting in the didn't know him . i at only found out like two years ago the , but he had also , and different he said he didn't see get any talks because he , sitting in the defcons back , trying how to get how , popular Geth back things got . but absolutely for client me , trying the defcon one is like to one of my best to of these ls0 run , years , simply because get was just on inspiring and motivating , i or LSO his and a or lot of the people you have machine or list were around there . like . or the it's , it's quite Geth the client to . run get on client his to machine found run or on something his like machine that someone or i something got like to know or a couple of years that only , who's that also doing some cool , stuff . he . was around there Because it was not easy back then . No , it took days . Even if you had the devs available right next to you , absolutely . It wasn't easy . No . so then . No , it I days . think that's you mainly the what available right next to you I have to share without it going into too much detail about things . Well . Well , so much , thanks so much . into too much detail about things . But well , thanks so much . welcome .

SPEAKER_00: what I so , i to that's mainly what i have to . so Great always chatting welcome . . always you're very . you're like share without it going into too much detail about , about things . But . Well , so much , you're , very All . All . always . the . All the

SPEAKER_00: very

SPEAKER_00: best

SPEAKER_00: .

SPEAKER_00: Thank

SPEAKER_00: you . You too .
