SPEAKER_01: So, hello, hello, Bob. Um, so yes, I'm Bob Summerwill recording here at DevCon Prague for Early Days of Ethereum. And I have here Jakub. We've known each other about three years or so now, I think. We did meet in Bogota for DevCon 6 for the first time where you introduced yourself. I was not aware of your background and role, but specifically, you were an intern at the Ethereum Foundation in Berlin in late 2015. And you also attended DevCon 1. So how did you come to be involved with Ethereum at that time?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, thank you for the intro and good question. It was in Bogota. I think I knew about you or of you for longer than since then, but yeah, I think you were chatting with someone and talking about Florian Glatz, maybe, and talking about the old days. And I just jumped in because I know Florian and found out that we have a shared interest in the old days of Ethereum.

I did my internship working on the Python client back starting September or August 2015. It was a couple of weeks after Ethereum launched, and the first week I was there was when there was the first big fork where the Go client forked from the C++ and Python client. There was a chain split on mainnet. It happened the second day I was there, and that was the same day that there was a meetup planned in the office. Everything was extremely chaotic, and people arrived at the office for the meetup, and nothing happened for a good amount of time. Eventually, I was just sitting there in the corner working, and I was like, no, we can't do this because there's so many people who are just looking. Some started leaving, so I kind of ad hoc jumped in and gave a presentation on Ethereum back then that I had given a couple of weeks before back in Copenhagen.

Prior to your internship, I gave the presentation prior to my internship because I started a Copenhagen Ethereum meetup group. It started on the 14th of July, 2015. The reason I got into Ethereum was I was studying computer science. I knew about Bitcoin and thought it would be interesting to write my bachelor thesis on Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_01: So this was an internship while you were still doing an undergraduate?

SPEAKER_00: It was actually an internship that I got because I wrote my bachelor thesis on Ethereum in the spring of 2015. So you had graduated, yeah, but just a bachelor, right. And because the ecosystem, so to speak, was so small back then, we were in contact with the Ethereum Foundation during the internship. I think I opened my first issue in March 2015 to the C++ client or something like that.

So yeah, I actually think the first I've known of Ethereum since end of 2014. Anyway, yeah, we wrote this bachelor thesis, me and two of my friends, and we shared it with the foundation. Then we got offered internships. I was the only one. I was tired of studying already only after a bachelor, and the other two guys wanted to continue. So I was like, okay, I'm gonna do this. A couple weeks later, I moved to Berlin to do my internship working on the Python client.

Yeah, that was a very interesting time. Like thinking back now, I'm sad I didn't write down more things or take more pictures or appreciate some of the things a little bit more. But I also had no idea that things would get as big as they are. Yeah, I enjoyed it a lot.

SPEAKER_01: It was primarily C++ development under Gavin Wood that was happening in that office, right? But also Felix Lange, I know, was there on the Go Ethereum team.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, and then some different people. Simon de la Rouviere, I think he was doing Ghost stuff. The Solidity team was also there. I think they were under the C++ team, that's right. They were there, and Remix as well. Mix, sorry, at the time, yeah. And I also remember the Mist. I guess at least Fabian Vogelsteller was also around. So there was a good amount of different people around. And also, quite often people would come and visit from other places. I remember a couple of times Christoph Jentzsch came to visit. There was one time where I think he arrived at midnight or something like that, and there were no one else at the office. I was doing my internship, and I think he wrote late afternoon, he wrote on the Skype channel if there would be someone around and that he was a little bit delayed or whatever. So I was just like, oh, it's fine. I had nothing to do in Berlin anyway. I had like the smallest room, just like a small room with a bed, nothing else basically. So I enjoyed spending a lot of time in the office, and I actually had I would usually just stay in the office and then just go home and sleep because the office was quite nice.

So yeah, I had one night where I think I left him into the office at midnight, and we had a little bit of a chat. I got to know him. He told me about all the testing he was doing and how they were testing. It was quite interesting, and that's cross-client testing as well, wasn't it? If I remember correctly, like he was building a lot of JSON data that they fit to the client and that was from the C++ client. I know that the C++ Ethereum was leading, and the tests were generated from that but then running those against the Python and Go Ethereum clients probably. Yeah, that sounds about right.

But yeah, I have there are a lot of small stories though. You told me we don't have too much time, and I'll try to keep it short. But yeah, I would say if I think back to like the most interesting things that happened, it was of course being lucky enough to participate at DevCon 1 and also experience the kind of split that was taking place at this point in time because the foundation, I think, almost ran out of money.

SPEAKER_01: So you also had Ming Chan. Her first official date was first of August of 2015. So yeah, you basically have those kind of cost-cutting measures coming in quite fast of looking at the spend where you know it had been going for a year. It was the July of the previous year that the foundation had been formed, and you had the crowd sale. But like nearly all of the money was gone.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I think that was also maybe not the most responsible usage of money. But also the Bitcoin price was doing really poorly. That's right, the Ether price itself was also, I think it dipped below the pre-sale price at some point. It's right, like September year in and you've had no accumulation. But yeah, I didn't have any interactions with Ming back then.

SPEAKER_01: Right, well because they were getting very rapidly, the funding or even shut down entirely.

SPEAKER_00: I think yeah, probably already or that was coming. Yeah, so that's why it ended up being the Python team instead because there was some budget. But yeah, like sitting as the only person working on the Python client in that office in my small corner, I had a lot of fun kind of following how people came and went and went into Gavin's office and had a chat there with him or whatever. And I didn't really know in the beginning what was going on until I was also asked if they wanted to to come in and talk. And it was basically like presenting ideas of like what would happen next with the C++ team and to consider joining there or whatever.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so that was sort of the pre-formation of what became Parity later.

SPEAKER_00: That so I was witnessing that without knowing what was going on. Yeah, I had no insight into like the finances of the foundation or anything like that. I only found out about most of those things later.

SPEAKER_01: Um, but so yeah, I mean maybe interesting to see. Yeah, yeah, so I mean let maybe let's let's talk about DevCon 1. So um, you'd have this so the first DevCon was DevCon 0, which happened in November 2014 before your time, which was the the closed event mainly Ethereum Foundation people but some broader ecosystem people. But then DevCon 1 happened in November 2015 in London. Um, it had got announced early in the year and got cancelled because of this funding squeeze. But then ConsenSys basically stepped up and filled that funding gap and did some organizing. So that was in November of that year. I was not present myself, I couldn't afford to go or whatever at the time, but I watched a lot of the livestream. But you know that was a really very seminal conference. So how how was that?

SPEAKER_00: It was for me it was amazing. I've never been good at like sitting still on a chair for a long period of time, but there I was at every talk from the beginning in the morning until the end. I think I missed one talk because I had to go catch my flight to go back on the last day. But it was I was just sitting there and sucking up all of these ideas and visions. And it was really I think before that I had an idea that I thought it would be interesting to continue working with Ethereum or in the Ethereum space. But after DevCon 1, I was like I have to do this. There's no other way for me. I'm not going back to the university. I'm not going to do anything else. This is what I'm gonna do because it was a full day or three full days of just sitting there and people presenting their ideas.

I remember clearly like there was like Maker was presented. I was like, okay, we did like stable coins. It was amazing. I think Fabian Vogelsteller and Stefano Bernardi and Alex Van de Sande and some other people presented the ERC-20 token standard or the early version of it, which yeah, okay, this has also this is such a big part of Ethereum now. I think maybe ConsenSys, I'm not sure actually. And of course, the the project I was working on, the people there like we were presenting the Raiden Network, which got a lot of very good feedback as well. So it was it was HydraChain as well, right? Yeah, I was not so sold on HydraChain back then because it was like aimed at at like permissioned Ethereum. Exactly, it was like a round robin kind of algorithm. And now it seems like something people would actually have used these days. So yeah, only 10 years too early.

But back to to to DevCon 1, I was just thinking about it after our conversation last night. Yeah, DevCon 1, it was just about the the technology. Like I think maybe there were three booths or something like that, right, a couple of stickers. I barely remember. I just remember BlockApps. What was the name of the project? BlockApps, yeah, BlockApps. I remember they had like a small booth. I think, right, very sad that I lost that sticker. But um, other than that, it was just like yeah, just people. There was one stage, and everyone was like in the same room. More, yes, um, and in the evenings, yeah, people would go out go out for dinner maybe, but there was not a single side event. There was not a single party. Glory days, it was just dinners and a couple of shepherd's pies somewhere, right? Um, and that was kind of fun like you you got to know people like really really well. And um yeah it was it was really just the golden days. I felt like there was so many inspired people and ideas and people only talked about tech. I think there was like one a little bit weird product hype talk with a guy who had a t-shirt gun on the stage, this like free my bunk, right, who had like a very different energy than everybody else. It felt like he was the only one who actually knew how to give a talk and how to actually sell. And back then I thought it was way too much. But now it's basically what everyone else is. That's right, and the quality of slides was so bad as well. It's right to look back, um, but yeah, I was thinking about that and then I was comparing with let's say DevCon 2. Right, I think at DevCon 2, there was maybe like a couple of parties. I think ConsenSys had like a bar somewhere where we would usually go. It was still not that big. Um, yeah, only one stage. I think at DevCon 2, there was just one main stage, quite doable. And then I think at DevCon 3 in Cancun, that was where you could really feel okay, now there's a lot of money in this space because like there were parties right and left. Um, and yeah, okay, the rest is history, right? That's right. It's been quite crazy to see this development as well of like measuring on the amount of events and parties at the different DevCons how how popular things got. But absolutely, yeah, for for me, the the DevCon 1 is like one of my best memories of these 10 years simply because it was just so inspiring and and motivating, I would say. And a lot of the people you have on your list were around there.

Yeah, it's it's quite quite cool. And I actually recently found out um that someone I got to know or a couple of years ago only um who's also doing some cool um stuff, he actually was around there. Like we didn't meet each other, I didn't know him, I only found out like two years ago. But he had also and he said he didn't see almost any talks because he was sitting in the back trying to get Geth or the Go client to run on his machine or something like that because it was not easy back then. No, no, it took days even if you had the devs available right next to you. Absolutely, it wasn't easy. No, um, so yeah, I think that's mainly what I have to like share without it going into too much detail about about things. But well, thanks so much. Yeah, you're very welcome. Great chatting always.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, okay, all the very best. Thank you, you too.