SPEAKER_03: You've been live for real.

SPEAKER_00: We are live, yes.

SPEAKER_03: We're live and we're live. So maybe this won't be so meaningful for the rest of you, but it is the 5th of November today, which in the UK is a very famous day of the calendar because it's Bonfire Night or Guy Fawkes Night, celebrating the burning in effigy of Guy Fawkes, who was the guy who tried to blow up the Parliament in the early 17th century. Oh, the V for Vendetta guy. V for Vendetta—so that's based on that.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, the poem says "Remember, remember" right in the first line.

SPEAKER_03: That's right. So basically the deal there was that annually you had the King giving a speech in front of Parliament, with the royalty and all of the elite sitting in the hall. They had stuffed barrels of gunpowder underneath, but it was discovered at the last minute. So now you have the burning of Guy Fawkes in effigy on Bonfire Night to celebrate that it didn't happen. You have a doll or whatever that you put on the fire. Anyway, happy Bonfire Night, everybody. Happy Bonfire Night. We should probably introduce Michael because he's a special guest. Absolutely, yes. I guess he's a guest—we'll make him a regular, I assume—but yeah, guys, see me on the Telegram.

SPEAKER_00: Michael, do you want to introduce yourself quickly?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I work on the sales side of the team. I'm going to be introducing the app today to you guys, and I hope you're excited.

SPEAKER_00: Well, you work sales, you're a dev, you're a front-end dev—you do a bunch of different stuff on the team.

SPEAKER_03: Got the moves. Let me just kick off. Hi. Hello, everybody. Welcome. So we did it—we launched V2. It happened. How does that feel, man? I think Bob, you may not be as tired... Oh, did—oh, he's gone away. Okay, he's frozen. He was filming. Yes, well...

SPEAKER_00: There were a lot of sleepless nights and working through weekends. Oh, you are back.

SPEAKER_02: He was back. It was my problem. Okay. Yeah, it started spinning everything for a second, and then you all came back.

SPEAKER_03: Take it. So how's V2 being live? How does that feel?

SPEAKER_02: Much better than before. You know, it's still... Do you ever feel good for a sustained period? I think not. But extremely happy that it's live. I think it would be interesting for the audience to go into a little bit of what it is and also why it took so long. So through the end of 2024, we started to realize that there was a lot of demand for DeFi-type features. Basically, Marketplace version one—Mercado version one, if you will—was more NFT-ish. We had interesting and exotic things that might be numbered and a breadth of them. So we had carbon offsets trading, whiskey barrels. Michael moved a lot of collectible shoes through the system. So truly, fairly unique—at least down to having a serial number or sometimes very unique stuff. There were occasional one-of-ones on there. We dipped our toes into the art market a little bit with some collabs, and also more financialized stuff too. The medals in particular were something we've had for a long time. And we kind of saw the most demand for the most financialized items, which led us to realize what people want from this technology. One way or another, in the course of the company, we did very enterprise stuff, a lot in the supply chain, and that actually led very naturally to the unique item focus. But everything in the blockchain space pulls back to some sort of financialization, and we decided to stop resisting this impulse as the market seemed to be demanding it.

We also realized that if your goal is to tokenize everything—if you want all manner of real-world value to be on-chain existing alongside truly digital-native assets like Bitcoin and ETH—what would get the world to do that? We thought the answer was making liquid trading markets where they didn't exist prior. And that is still part of it, but I think it's more about debt than it is about selling or transacting. Right. So on Marketplace version one, we created a mechanism whereby you could borrow against collateral. It was sort of primitively done, but you could do it within the system, and it got great uptake. Then we said, "All right, let's just make this stuff a little more DeFi." And it turned out we were not expecting to do a relaunch. In fact, we were bringing folks on through Q1 and Q2, TVL was rising, loan volumes were increasing, and so on. But we realized we were hitting the limits of the system pretty quickly, and that we needed to change some of the way the internals worked.

We did a listing of our gold token with a small exchange. It was a good experience to work with them, but they had a hard time dealing with things as they were. Everyone wanted the ERC-20 style, and to make the capabilities show the best of DeFi was a huge effort that turned into a full relaunch, which was never the goal at the outset. Happy to be on the other side of it. The system is definitely way better. It's a little bit different. There are some areas where we took a shortcut on version one that made it easy, and we've now made it more decentralized, which is definitely better, but there could be rough edges. For instance, we often had fixed pricing or pure spot pricing on Marketplace version one, and now we have swap pools, which is great because they let the market determine the price and get third-party liquidity in. But then there's more variability on any given trade execution. These things will work themselves out over time, but it was a huge effort—it's way better. We ended up in a more different place than I intended at the outset. Let me throw it over to Victor just on all this.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I think the thing is that our core insight was really this: if you think about how people in the real world accumulate wealth, it's through small accumulation over time of interest—like a savings account, a retirement account. People aren't day trading constantly, right?

**[09:25] UNKNOWN:** So—

SPEAKER_00: What we realized is that it wasn't enough to simply tokenize things in the real world—exotic or not—but to turn those into things that were revenue-generating for you individually and earning over time. So you should be able to have multiple ways, aside from trading, to earn. And we realized that DeFi had kind of answered this, but it did it in a way that was too complicated for the vast majority of people to understand. I mean, even a year ago, Vitalik himself was like, "Someone needs to explain to me where DeFi yields are coming from." If he couldn't understand it, how could the rest of the world get into it? We wanted to build a system that would allow the rest of the world to access those DeFi earning potentials. And I think there were two things that came out of it. One is that we had to combine the pool of assets to not just be about real-world assets—liquid real-world assets, which we started with—but also bring in high-quality crypto assets. The second thing is that we had to offer different paths of earning. You could put some of those assets into a liquidity pool that you lend out to other people and get interest on that. You could go into swap pools and earn when prices differ. You could put some of your things into a savings account that people can offer. So basically, V2 offers all of those paths for users, which we're really excited about.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I mean, the point you were saying about trading specifically, Victor—you know, a stat I've repeatedly said, parroting from a prior project, is that only about 5% of people who try to day trade actually make a profit. Most people are absolutely terrible at trading because you just end up trading your emotions—you're scared at the wrong time and not brave at the right time. It's very easy to put yourself in a worse position. So having passive yield is absolutely a big need for a huge amount of people.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I was really surprised that even in the crypto world, the amount of people that had exposure to DeFi was relatively small. And I think people didn't understand how well-established those patterns have gotten. It's funny that Vitalik has just woken up to this. Last year he said, "I didn't understand." Now he says, "The future of Ethereum is going to be based on low-risk DeFi." So that's what we're talking about.

SPEAKER_03: Well, BEF are using DeFi themselves now, finally. Exactly. For like 10 years, they were just market dumping to raise funds. And it's like, you know, the thing that's kind of got built here because of Ethereum is—

SPEAKER_00: Well, and the world fundamentally, to Kieren's point, runs on credit. And DeFi has really solved the collateralized lending component in a way that is so seamless. Where else can you get a loan in minutes in a reliable fashion? And it does it in a way that allows it to be much more transparent than typical financial institutions. The people benefiting from those loans are the other users, which is really exciting to us.

SPEAKER_03: So how would you say V2 is different than existing other big-name DeFi protocols?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it very much has a point-and-click philosophy. If you look at the app today, which Michael will show you, there are still details bleeding through that we will eventually smooth out as appropriate. You need the user to know what they're doing but not quite know how it's happening, if you will—give them the right amount of rope, et cetera. But it is much easier than other takes on how to do it, in my opinion. The easiest way into our system is to take some USDC and mint our stable token USDST. You can also go in with ETH, for instance, and then you'll be granted some vouchers which will give you gas on bridge-in. Once that's happened, you're in this sort of pleasant, essentially gas-free playground where you point and click like a normal Web2 app. This philosophy extends further. At the moment, we have just four swap pools set up, which we've seeded and others have with some liquidity. We'll expand this over time, for sure, and eventually go to a permissionless listing structure. The reason we've kept it small to date is to make sure everything is working and to give you a little less rope than other platforms. If you go to Uniswap, for instance, you'll find the top pool is usually the top by volume. You can sort by TVL if you want, and that directs people's attention to whatever is trading right now, with wildly variable APRs and APYs that encourage an "aping in" sort of behavior. Our message is more like: get into whichever assets you prefer, maybe borrow conservatively, and just keep accumulating over time. So it's not quite at a vanguard level, but more of a "set it, forget it, be conservative, keep growing" attitude that should show through within the system while still having flexibility. I guess I would say "batteries included." There are actually two borrowing paths within the system. Once you have collateral, you can mint our stablecoin at a moderate interest rate and then put that into swap pools, lending pools, and so on. Or you could go into the secondary market, which is a little more flexible in certain ways—swapping directly, lending pool, etc. We don't aspire to the same ends as projects like Hyperliquid, which is an Alt-L1 that gives you control over fees, very low latency, fast irreversible confirmations, and latitude to make the user experience as good as possible. It's been a real step-function change from both our old stuff and what's out there today.

SPEAKER_03: Well, should we take a look? Let's take a look.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, I guess I'm off. All right, share my screen. Okay, everybody see my screen?

SPEAKER_00: Yes. Great.

SPEAKER_01: So we're going to start with bridging in tokens. There are two ways to do it. The normal bridge—well, first you have to connect your wallet, of course, using MetaMask here. If you want to bridge ETH or any kind of wrapped Bitcoin, PaxG, I think we have something else—I forgot—you bridge it into this. If you want to bridge in stables, I would go through the convert feature that will mint on bridge. So we're going to bridge in USDC. This is the testnet, by the way, if you want to try it out. Just go to this link. And if you want to get some test USDC, Aave has some test faucets for USDC and USDT. But let's bridge in like $100, maybe. Let's do USDC, get USDT. Bridge it in. Confirm, confirm. Minting. So I bridged them in before just because this is a bit of a process, but you could also check the status here. Takes a while for the server to update, but there's an earlier one I did that completed. So let's just assume that it's already in here.

SPEAKER_00: The delays are not on the Mercada side. It's pretty much instantaneous. It's on the Ethereum Sepolia side.

SPEAKER_01: Yep. So we're going to swap some right now. Let's swap some USDT. Let's do, I don't know, 10. Let's get some EFST swap. And also gas is used through USDST on our app as well—similar to Hyperliquid, actually.

SPEAKER_03: And what do you pay? What are you paying as an all-in transaction?

SPEAKER_01: It depends on the transactions, but some are one cent to three cents, depending on what it is. If it's three cents, it's probably like three transactions in there.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Usually, a bridging is two transactions, I'm not mistaken.

SPEAKER_02: Although, yes, if you bridge in, you get minted vouchers. So the vouchers just give you free transactions one-to-one with the cents, I suppose.

SPEAKER_01: Yep. Vouchers you can track here as well. And it's a cool little widget. Anyway, so I swapped some assets.

SPEAKER_03: And vouchers, just to clarify—so that's kind of a nice hack of getting past the "Oh my God, I haven't got any Ether for gas on this chain at this time," right?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, exactly. It's an onboarding thing. Like, without this, one big limitation on L2 chains is that you can't even do your first transactions on most of them until you have the native token. So it allows us to bring people on without requiring that.

SPEAKER_01: Yep. So we've done the swaps. We're going to add some liquidity.

SPEAKER_00: I just want to mention—if you can go back to the stock—one really important thing with our system is it allows you to see the exchange rates internally, but also the global exchange rate. That's where you see the exchange spot right under there. So that's the global rate. This is something we learned from two of our trading contests. So you can see arbitrage opportunities directly from these two things, instead of having to go somewhere else to figure it out.

SPEAKER_02: It's been funny on the live system. For those who have used DEXs, if there's not much liquidity, you can definitely push the price as reported by the DEX off of the true market price. Here we're combining a couple of different data sources to get the spot price, and that's just coming through at the oracle. It's used for the health calculations when you borrow. The reason you want to do that is someone could do a big trade on one of the pools and manipulate that price and then liquidate someone or etc.

SPEAKER_00: As we saw very recently with the Balancer attack.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah. So it's also just a reminder to get good execution. So for those who go try this, if you do it on the live net, just make sure you don't do huge trades just yet because liquidity is still coming in from both us and externals to make sure you get good execution.

SPEAKER_01: Yep. And the pool is not really relevant to the Oracle price, but everyone should keep that in mind as well. Anyway, we'll get back to the pool. So these are the lending pools that contribute to the borrow lending, which we'll get to in a little bit. I can deposit a hundred in here, and then I will be issued some M USDST tokens, which are my pool tokens, representing my lending pool contribution. I believe that is in these non-earnings right here. I am a good—so let's also contribute some money to the swap pool so you can earn APY. Let's see what looks juicy right now. The silver—wow.

SPEAKER_02: Silver trains.

SPEAKER_01: Looking for my deposit. And we are deposited and we're earning APY.

SPEAKER_03: And you're depositing both SylvST and USDST?

SPEAKER_02: That's right. When you input to a swap pool, you need to put in both pairs. And we have two modes here. It's probably just better to use the A and B mode, but you can do a single-sided liquidity add. What it does is it does a swap so that you have an equal amount of the other one, and then it deposits it.

SPEAKER_03: That's the convenience if you wanted to get into it but you haven't got the right stuff.

SPEAKER_01: That's correct. The button's right here for everybody that wants to do it single-sided if they choose to do so. Let's see, what are we going to do? Let's do some borrowing. So I'm going to supply my whole ETH stack—14 bucks. All of it. Don't do it all. Do all of it.

SPEAKER_02: He'll be okay on the gas, though.

SPEAKER_01: So I have—let's see—I have $14. I'll hide some of these. $14.90 here. Because the LTV, I believe, is about 75%, I have $11.

SPEAKER_02: We tend to match the market.

SPEAKER_01: You don't need to go all the way up to the LTV, but let's go all the way anyway.

SPEAKER_00: I would flag—this is risky.

SPEAKER_01: I would recommend people—my hope is that you always be careful with your health factor.

SPEAKER_00: Once you hit one, you can get liquidated, but we can also—I recommend going with the anti-person basically.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we can always just repay it, and it will instantly update here. Buy as remorse at instant and refund. Overall, that's the app. It's kind of a combination of Uniswap and Aave for you guys more familiar with Web3. If you guys have any questions or if you want a deeper walkthrough, feel free to message me on Telegram and we can hop on Zoom.

SPEAKER_02: But there you go, guys. Also, for the gold and silver bugs out there, we take physical deposits in addition to supporting some of the popular—well, actually, there's no, so far as I know, really popular silver token other than ours. But we'll take PaxG right now and soon the Tether Gold coin as well. And that can drive your borrowing power within the system. You can borrow and then turn around and lend—CDP path—and that will make your gold into a productive asset.

SPEAKER_03: I hadn't thought that there weren't other silver tokens. That's a good thing.

SPEAKER_02: I looked—what's out there is very small.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, there are a bunch of gold tokens at this point. A lot of gold. Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: So, yeah. So that was that.

SPEAKER_02: I have one more comment, actually. It's been kind of fun. The prod system has been online for a couple days. The most trading has been on the ETH pool because it's been volatile. Sorry if anyone's gotten hurt out there in the last 24 hours or so. Michael likes to get liquidated, I know. So that's manifested very quickly on our system, and it's where a lot of the trading is. It's still very much beta mode, but we have enough people that we're starting to see the pool prices actually converge to the spot price because if it doesn't, there's an arb in there. Get in early, don't put crazy amounts in because these systems become pretty efficient over time. But when it's not, there's money to be made. And finally, for those of you who are holders of Kata points, mostly from V1 or contest participation, we're going to monitor the system for a little bit, just make sure everything is working, and then start to work towards the V2 points program. Not imminent, but coming.

SPEAKER_03: Excellent. Because I've seen a number of people asking that question.

SPEAKER_00: And I was just going to add—if you want to try it out now, you can just go to our updated website at stradomercada.com and click launch app. One of the big efforts we're going to is to improve the UX. So if anyone has any suggestions, please join our Telegram community and send us messages there. We'd love to hear from you. We're actively trying to improve it and achieve our goal of mainstreaming DeFi.

SPEAKER_03: And Colin there says, "The whole platform works perfectly, just waiting on the rendering of the front page to be visible for me." That's a friend, Crypto Tarzan, who was having the issue of seeing his Carter that we're hiding under the non-earning assets.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, just click that arrow button. Yes, and you'll see.

SPEAKER_03: That's the sneaky arrows. When I do that, I get the old stuff. I think I've got some whiskey barrel bits in there and some other little... You get a whiskey barrel? Those are real. They're trading. I got some fraction.

SPEAKER_02: Did you really?

SPEAKER_03: Okay. I believe so. Right, right. That's cool. I recall a lot. Yeah, they're still lurking there.

SPEAKER_02: I know some people have exited those. They are, no pun intended, kind of illiquid, but there's been a little bit of whiskey barrel trading, so we should discuss offline.

SPEAKER_03: Holders are not being rugged.

SPEAKER_02: The whiskey's still out there. You get the physical delivery at the end. Maybe not if it's fractionalized.

SPEAKER_03: At the end of the rail bed.

SPEAKER_02: That's right.

SPEAKER_03: Making delivery. Okay. Well, is there anything else anyone wanted to cover, or we can wrap it up.

SPEAKER_00: No, we just look forward to you guys trying it and giving us whatever input. We're really excited for you to see this, and we'll continue to evolve a lot. Things have been moving quickly and will continue to be moving quickly. So exciting times for us.

SPEAKER_03: So, yeah, just head to stratomercada.com—that's S-T-R-A-T-O-M-E-R-C-A-D-A.com. And you've got the app there and all the information.

SPEAKER_02: Launch button in the top right. Then we'll do another landing page, which we have to, of course, eliminate as well. It's better that this thing is up. But yes, sometimes you have to just make a choice and launch it. But in time.

SPEAKER_03: Well, didn't I say—if you're not embarrassed a bit about the things that you release, then you release too late.

SPEAKER_00: For sure. Absolutely. Yeah, we do. We're strong advocates.

SPEAKER_02: It's great, though. It's like a teenager. You're like, "I love this child," but you're still getting on my nerves a little bit.

SPEAKER_00: You can say that as a non-parent.

SPEAKER_02: As a parent, I can do that as a parent.

SPEAKER_00: They never get—it's just love.

SPEAKER_02: They're perfect. They never get on your nerves? Never. They definitely get on your nerves. You're lying to me. You're lying to the internet.

SPEAKER_03: Children are never frustrating. Never.

SPEAKER_00: They're just perfect. They're balls of joy. That's it. Non-stop. Thank you, everyone.

SPEAKER_03: Cheers, everyone. Have a good week.