SPEAKER_00: The stream is live.

SPEAKER_01: The stream is live.

SPEAKER_02: Don't cross the streams.

SPEAKER_00: Who are you gonna call to see.

SPEAKER_02: What happens to the audio when you cross the streets?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, exactly. Okay, we seem to be also live on X. So welcome everyone to another group chat for by the mutual support.

SPEAKER_02: Group chat.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, exactly. With the builders from Stra Mercada. I'm Victor Wong. I am founder and chief product officer at Stra Mercada. Bob, who are you?

SPEAKER_02: Hello, I'm head of ecosystem and Kieren.

SPEAKER_01: Who are you?

SPEAKER_00: Kieren James-Lubin, the CEO. Once a coater. You know, long time off code, a little again. Vibe coding era has been great for making an occasional fix here and there, but soon we'll be back just doing commercial stuff.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I was playing around with the OpenAI browser today and it was kind of miraculous. Just telling it to do stuff and seeing like the cursor move around all by itself was both miraculous and disturbing. No.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, though it moves really slow.

SPEAKER_01: It does. It takes time to do stuff and. But you just gotta keep it running in the background. Anyways, today's topic—getting us back to the topic at hand—is basically our corporate chains back, and we obviously have some intimate knowledge about this having been part of the rise and perhaps fall and maybe the rise again of corporate chains. Hey, hey, hey Louis, nice to have you. But maybe you can, maybe Bob, you can give us an outline of the new corporate chains as they're called, like what's kind of happening currently, and then we can look back over the history of corporate chains.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean you know the red hot action at the moment is really about Tempo. So Tempo was announced on September 4 by Stripe and a consortium that they got together, which just reading initial members—as well as Stripe themselves—includes Anthropic, Coupang (I don't know who those are; I'm not going to say), Deutsche Bank, DoorDash, Mercury Bank, OpenAI, Revolut, Shopify, and Visa. So yeah, I mean you got Shopify and Visa. You know you're doing pretty well on that payment side. And yeah, I mean I guess especially where a lot of this tension has come in on the Ethereum side is, you know, this is going to be another EVM chain. So it's kind of like, thanks for the work guys, we'll do a corporate version now. And you know, so sponsors specifically—Paradigm are a big part of this now. Paradigm have spent the last few years kind of building up Ethereum stack stuff, you know, kind of being semi well-behaved participants within the Ethereum ecosystem. Carry out a few VC nasty moments, but essentially building—hey, we've built a really good new Rust client. Right. We do some of the best tooling, you know, with Foundry. Right. You know what you had going on in earlier years. Right. We've made a better one. And I think there's about three or four areas where they built sort of Ethereum stack stuff, almost like, hey, here's a full stack Ethereum stack. Oh, but actually we're going over that to like—we've got the answer and we can just do a new chain deployment and off we go. So yeah, that's not been received terribly well. Also big brain drain—you know, they are snuffling up a good number of fairly high-profile people. Dankrad Feist, one of the main Ethereum researchers, key guy behind the proof-of-stake transition. You know, years of work—you know him as a primary guy—and he's off, you know, to get his paycheck. Fair play to him. You know, a number of other people as well. But that's been the current fire, as Guat said: this is like if Greta went to work for BP.

SPEAKER_01: Well, and to be clear also, I think we've been talking about Tempo, but they're not the only corporate chain. Like you know, obviously Robinhood is launching an L2 on Arbitrum.

SPEAKER_00: I think it's an L1.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So Arbitrum stack. But yeah, I don't know if it's an L2 or an L1. They've sort of talked about various bits on that. Circle, Circle announced ARC.

SPEAKER_01: Yep.

SPEAKER_02: You know, they're not content to be just a stablecoin on other chains. It's like, right, we're going to do our own chain as well. I mean Base—you know, the whole Base thing from Coinbase—again, you know, they haven't had a token, but you know there's your straight path into Coinbase.

SPEAKER_00: Tether has a chain or soon. Right. I think they announced something maybe.

SPEAKER_02: I mean they started out, you know, before Ethereum stuff was going. Right. It's on Omni—that was previously Mastercoin, you know, super ancient tech, 2013 era. But then you know they later moved to Ethereum and many other chains. But yeah, like having their own totally—you know, is something that makes sense. And I mean you've had Binance Chain—you know, BNB—for years. Pretty much every major exchange seems to have their own chain.

SPEAKER_01: Now.

SPEAKER_00: Uniswap has a chain.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, Uniswap has a chain. But I don't think of those as corporate chains. Like it's really hard to tell.

SPEAKER_00: Right. It's like, is it for us, by us, or is it sort of like, you know, it—somehow I see the Stripe chain as like the incursion of the establishment into our crypto turf, where it's like. And I kind of see Base that way a little bit, where I feel somehow less bad about Binance Chain, even though Coinbase in some ways is a better actor than Binance, but very much Coinbase just feels like part of the old thing to me, you.

SPEAKER_02: Know, whereas—I mean these lines are quite arbitrary.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: You know, there were various discussions I saw as well this week about Ethereum alignment. You know, what does that even mean? It's like, so these guys, they're Ethereum aligned, so it's okay.

SPEAKER_00: So it's okay. I think what it means—I mean, it's a strange thing that's going on. Let's take it to Bitcoin for a second. I've been critical—at least privately, maybe publicly—of the maxi mentality in which, like, you know, there will only be Bitcoin, there's only one sincere crypto asset, you know, everything after is a scam, and we should just all put our energy into Bitcoin, but also never really add anything to Bitcoin. Maybe very slowly add small things around the margin.

SPEAKER_01: Well, it's just gonna stay secure. Like we believe in open markets, but we should be the only market.

SPEAKER_00: Right?

SPEAKER_01: Like there should only ultimately be a single market.

SPEAKER_02: I mean it's very hypocritical as well for libertarian types because it's like, no, no, this is all about freedom from the man. Right. You know—yeah, you can't tell me what to do. Permissionless chains. Yeah, but not like that.

SPEAKER_00: Everything here, just in this one approved location. Yeah. So I think it's a little bit a repeat of that phenomenon. I mean, I get it also—I guess like I'm a kind of a believer in the more permissive open source software licensing. Like at the same time, maybe Linux was right as far as like GPL sort of forcing the commercial efforts to crew back one place, and you know, the BSDs survive basically with OS X to some extent, you know, and perhaps maybe it out-competed because it had a benevolent dictator, genius. But maybe it out-competed in part because of the viral virality of the license. And this is not to say I think there's a mix of licensing regimes. I know you've worked on this very directly, Bob, for the Ethereum software. Some of it permissive, some not. But you know, it's sort of part of—it's also like a lot of the Ethereum people did well enough to either launch the next thing on Ethereum or launch the next thing not on Ethereum and didn't really have any need for a job per se at some point, and so you would expect something new to come and maybe try to cannibalize the old thing. It's a strange sort of religiosity also, and I think we experienced it even in like back in 2015. Even like any deviation from Ethereum principles was looked askance, you know.

SPEAKER_01: Well, maybe that's sort of a good transition. Maybe we can, you know—we as BlockApps and StraMercada went in, you know, with the Haskell implementation of Ethereum, went in our corporate chain direction. Maybe you can talk about there. So we may be partly to blame for this.

SPEAKER_00: Partly to blame, and it was barely on purpose. So rolling back in 20—let's say late 2014—our CTO, Jim, and I—mostly Jim—started working on the Haskell implementation of Ethereum, and he pretty quickly got it to the point where it could like sync the testnet, you know, and there were some chat groups, a Slack, there was a bit of—the Yellow Paper, I guess, was out at that time.

SPEAKER_02: I found an exact date for this actually. So Jim's first commit was mid-September 2014.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that sounds right.

SPEAKER_02: The Yellow Paper had been out that April.

SPEAKER_01: Really?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, gotcha. Yeah. And he might have been working on it for a while before he pushed anything. I think I would have gotten back. So we met up—we got introduced by previous co-founder of Jim's who I had reached out to when I started working on Ethereum, and we probably spoke the first time June, July, something like that, and we met up in Berkeley probably the first time maybe August or September or thereabouts. By the way, since then Jim continues to have a client of a habit of building a full client to try to understand a piece of blockchain software. At some point we were looking into the state of zero-knowledge proofs, and he built—I believe—a full syncing Zcash client. It's definitely missing some features, but we still have that somewhere.

SPEAKER_02: And as you do.

SPEAKER_01: As you do.

SPEAKER_00: As one does. As one does. We should revisit this at some later date. But so he—so yes, we met up, he started coding, and it got to the point of functional and syncing with the fairly primitive early testnets pretty quickly. And, you know, we didn't quite intend to turn it into a business right at the beginning, but the three of us—that's Victor, Jim, and I—met up January 2015, had a bunch of conferences that I've spoken about at other times. We can link people to the early days of Ethereum 1. Perhaps that helped kind of galvanize the effort. But I think what we had was always like a pragmatic attitude, right? And so shortly after that, one of the first things we built—we found the API interaction style to be a little odd. Like the JSON-RPC, the Web3 library. We're like, all other APIs are like this, where this is a REST API. We were looking at Chain.com—I think Chain actually sponsored the conference that we did or spoke or something—and it was a good talk where it's like, well, we've got these 20 great use cases that people are doing out there in the world. Oh, and they're all on Chain. You know, Chain also fairly soon after that seemed to go a corporate chain direction.

SPEAKER_02: Was that sort of like a UTXO Bitcoin-like, because—I know.

SPEAKER_00: I assume so, yeah. I think they probably either forked one of the Bitcoin clients or maybe they started from scratch, but—but first, definitely they were trying to be the Bitcoin developer API. It just didn't feel like there was enough demand at that time. And I assume, like us, it was a strange period where you actually got pretty active corporate inbound. Like sometime in 2015 and then later into 2016, it was very common for corporate innovation labs to be running some kind of blockchain tech, usually an Ethereum variant. And they were very explicit. And maybe it's sort of like the early cloud days. Like, we want that thing you've got, but can you just get it on prem? Can you just—like we want the ledger, we'd want to know who the parties are. You can't just let anyone in here. We're regulated. We want it, though. We really want it. We like this API you've got. Give it to us. We got transactions to settle right now with our suppliers. And it all went way slower than that. But it was like—it was like the market was actually screaming at you for a minute there in a way that the world feels much different now. I think it is certainly true that in the—I don't know, 70s or 80s or whatever—it was common for like the Department of Defense or some giant bank or something to be your first customer. And much later it's sort of more the opposite that you'd get like bottoms-up devs, small companies first, and then later really big guys. And it was sort of a strange mix. It's like you get—I think there's like a barbell effect where really big companies have a lot of excess cash to investigate new technologies, and then you get startups, you know, and that was a feeling, and we would get the inbound from those really big companies. And you know, I think that even that era—I bet they're all doing AI now, and maybe that adoption is going probably mixed. But there was a moment there where it was like screaming urgent demand.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I would say part of that also is like when we launched Blockchain as a Service with Microsoft and we made it easy to effectively build your own testnets on clouds. Everyone started doing it, right?

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: And the interesting thing is at that time the real development seemed to be happening five years—corporates in these innovation labs versus you know, independent apps.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that's right. It felt like, okay, they would come to you with like a PowerPoint describing the like billion-plus dollar problem that they had. This is after all the NDAs were signed and all that sort of thing. This was like very convincing. It was like, you know, some of the use cases were bad, but a lot of them are like, oh okay, like you have some like really complicated multi-organization settlement problem that you handle with spreadsheets or some ancient system, and it costs a ton of money, and if you actually could upgrade it, it would be way better potentially. And the vast majority of those did not work out. But it wasn't like they identified the wrong problem. It was like the will to implement across a corporation or multiple corporations. This big consortium era was probably the issue. And to some extent, I know we want to talk a little bit about Libra, you know, regulatory barriers as well in certain cases. But yeah, it was like—so again, we at first started to be wanted to be just like the public net API, like Alchemy or an Infura now, and I think we're just a little early for that. And then also we're going to the effort of maintaining a whole client, which was challenging because things kept changing, as they continue to do, but got very much pulled in this, like, let's run our own network direction by the corporates.

SPEAKER_01: And I think part of it was at that early time, they couldn't hold ETH. So they were like, we want to do all these things, but we can't hold ETH. Can you make a version where we don't need to do it to do all these things?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, I totally forgot. It was like, treasury doesn't know what to do—30 bucks. Like, like, like, you know, but like, no, we got our procedures. We can't, you know, it has to get in the ERP. We can't have like a line item for that. And, you know, it's like, I remember.

SPEAKER_02: I remember with R3DB—you know, who became Monax and so on—there you had a situation of a company being set up by lawyers who, you know, really love the smart contract functionality, but nothing to do with ETH. It's like ETH is probably in legal security. Like, we don't want to get anywhere near that. It's like—so it really was the blockchain, not Bitcoin being the phrase at the time. Right, though blockchain—not Ethereum, not either.

SPEAKER_01: But the one thing that was really interesting, like, when we launched that Blockchain as a Service and it got on Azure, we had thousands of people spinning up stuff and then a good number of them reaching out to us. And I will say the use cases that didn't seem speculative did come from these corporates. To Kieren's point, it's like we did get contacted by smaller groups, but they were like, oh, well, we just want to launch our own token and sell it. Those are all those use cases that.

SPEAKER_00: Came a little later, actually. That took once a couple of ICOs had happened. Like, suddenly everyone wanted to pay someone to build their thing for an ICO. But that was kind of more like a 2016–2018 phenomenon, I would say.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, that's true.

SPEAKER_00: The corporates came first, actually, which was.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly. And so, I mean, you know, that was our experience. And shortly afterwards, and Bob, you might have the timing, Libra by Facebook came along and they were doing their own thing. Do you know the time?

SPEAKER_00: 17?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we launched Blockchain as a Service in 2015.

SPEAKER_00: Right, in 2015.

SPEAKER_01: So I'm feeling like it was 2016 that Libra.

SPEAKER_00: No, it was later. I think was it?

SPEAKER_02: Okay, here we go.

SPEAKER_01: As a resident historian of all things blockchain.

SPEAKER_02: There we go. June 18th, 2019.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, okay.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. At that point Meta, then Facebook—this was before they'd even turned into Meta—announced it, which is a stablecoin project intended for global payments via its applications, sorry via apps. So what you have there—I mean the other thing worth saying about Libra is Libra is not an EVM project. You know, they had their—I guess, you know, they're like happening like five years later. So it's like, you know, let's apply all of our learnings of what's worked and what has not worked over that five-year period, especially about smart contract security and, you know, having a constrained model.

SPEAKER_00: Their language seems pretty good to me actually. But no one uses it. We're stuck with Solidity—it'll be the JavaScript/COBOL of the crypto age. We're never getting rid of this thing, let's say.

SPEAKER_01: Well, and you know like I think the EVM has become the standard. Right. Like that's just, you know, I mean Redone was mentioning that last week, and I think that that is true basically to a certain degree.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah. I mean I think it's the—it's the JavaScript, it's the C. It's good enough that stuff got made on it and it's never going away. Yeah. You know this stuff is going to be there forever or like Unix.

SPEAKER_01: But Libra had—sorry, yeah, but the launch of Libra—they had super high-profile partners if.

SPEAKER_00: I recall too, very similar actually to the kind of. It was mostly like payment networks and notably no banks. It felt like a tech company, fintech disintermediation play like, well, if we just had these stables, then we wouldn't have to have the bank account at the edge too, and we could just. And I think this is kind of what killed it. Right. Like the banks—each called up their representative and just screamed about big tech, you know, monopoly power.

SPEAKER_02: So here's a list. So Facebook, Uber, Spotify, Andreessen Horowitz—why they would be in there—Anchorage Bank, the digital custody, Lyft, Zappos, Coinbase, Union Square Ventures. So yeah, it's actually a crappier list by far than Tempo.

SPEAKER_00: You know Mastercard was in until like the last second.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_00: People started making regulator noise and they dropped—I think maybe Visa too.

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah. So, so I guess that gets into the question like why didn't that work, right. Like and I think we've touched—like I recall Mark Zuckerberg having to like talk to Congress.

SPEAKER_02: I just found these exits. So the major exits out of that work were PayPal, Visa, Mastercard, Stripe, right? Yeah, eBay. And I think they all like dropped out real super fast, didn't they? And I mean I think there was a mixture of things. This is my thoughts. Maybe you guys have got different thoughts. Firstly, everyone hated Facebook because they just had the Cambridge Analytica stuff. It's like, we're not going to trust you. You guys like, no. But then the second one was like regulatory stuff because it was going to be like a—because it was kind of going up against the dollar, right. It was this—it was like, right, we're going to have a basket of things. So it wasn't just a straight stablecoin. It's like, oh, we're kind of having a go at the US dollar and.

SPEAKER_00: They cut the banks out of it too. That's the third point. Like, and it's also like the banks are fond of making their—guess they're called market utilities. You know, they're bank-owned industry cabals like SWIFT, the DTCC. Some, a lot of the exchanges are like this. I guess even the—I don't really understand how that worked—even the Fed is bank-owned. But basically like the banks pooled a bunch of capital a long time ago and they set up this thing that you kind of have to use, and the profits from using that thing go back to them. And it's also like a choke point, you know. And like under other circumstances you would have some sort of antitrust issue in doing this. Like it's kind of like definitionally collusion. But you also need these things, right, to make the whole thing function. But it seemed like when tech attempted to do that itself, like the banks still had the ear of the relevant parties and shut it down.

SPEAKER_02: But I mean that's happening here again, right? It's almost the same people, and it's basically saying, right, you know, the banks and the credit card companies—to a lesser degree—like own these pipes, and we had to like sit on top kind of thing and service.

**[27:20] SPEKER_00:** Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: How about like if us fintech techie companies—the Silicon Valley ones—instead. How about like.

SPEAKER_00: I think it would be cool if it happened. By the way, I was—I always thought, though I'm a bit of a big tech hater, I always thought Libra was at least cool. Like it would be interesting.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean the technology behind it—you know, it was UTXO-based. But it seemed pretty good. Like they did a good job from the technology side.

SPEAKER_02: Yes, yeah, yeah, I think so. And not just doing like sort of a lazy job, I guess, because talking about some of those earlier phases, it's like, right, oh we kind of going to take Bitcoin and it's an enterprise Bitcoin. Okay. And then it's like, right, sort of same deal on the EVMs, but because they were that many years later, it was sort of almost like a clean room kind of effort. I think actually R3 did this with Corda, right? They did—they did some really good blogs right from Richard Gendal Brown, sort of saying, hey, we looked at all of the things that these existing techs are doing, and you know, whatever, there's these four or five different elements, and for our scenario we need three of them. But we could do something else completely different, coming up with a different kind of solution. I think that kind of happened with Libra as well. It's like, let's get brainiacs.

SPEAKER_01: Too, right? Like I mean they were trying to do something.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, Fabric is a funny case too. I think in all of these cases they correctly identified problems with Ethereum and related tech, and in essentially none of them did they solve those problems. Yeah, they came at it with different approaches. Like I really tried—I always liked Corda too. It was clean. Actually find the UTXO stuff, especially enhanced UTXO, to be esthetically pleasing. Even Avalanche has one of those, and no one uses it. And when you really pressed like the quarter, people were like, we're compliant, we've got privacy, you know, we've got. And what you had was like a central ordering thing and no privacy whatsoever if you wanted to double-spend protection. And it was like—it was still cool and clean, and I liked their state facts and this and that. But largely spoken mirrors. Fabric was not good. You know, it was like a hacked together—like if you think about what a system integrator would build, it's like, well, we've got a Kafka thing, we've got this other thing, we've got a little bit of inter-process communication, we've got an API. Like that's what it was—it was. I don't think there was a real clean vision for Fabric, but you.

SPEAKER_02: Mean like something IBM might build, that's what.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, I'm saying, you know, like it's like, well, if you just kind of put this thing with that thing and there's a consensus, it's kind of like a blockchain.

SPEAKER_02: You'll never get sacked for buying it either.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You won't get stuck. It's open source.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I think one of the common things was like all of those things had no token incentives. Right. So like you kind of had to go down that route to a certain degree because how else do you make sure—how else do you get something blockchain? Like, I do think if you don't have token incentives, really, it all kinds of falls apart to a certain degree.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean, you know, the model that you had right for all of these is, well, these are running within a consortium which already has legal agreements, you know, so we don't need to be permissionless because we know who's done the bad shit and we've got a contract and we'll sue you or whatever. And if you have got that situation, well, there's a whole lot of simplification that you can do. If you look at proof of work in particular and what that overhead that you have on Bitcoin or Ethereum at that time, it's incredibly expensive way of doing things versus the simpler approaches. The stat I saw from a thing Colin Platt did in around 2018 was like, he worked out it was maybe as much as a hundred million times more expensive to do stuff on the EVM versus a single AWS node that you're running yourself, where you obviously got complete trust. But that's like the overhead, right? That's what you're paying.

SPEAKER_00: It's quite a bit of overhead.

SPEAKER_01: So, so why do you guys—and you know, that's part of the answer—and I'm just kind of curious for you guys, I have my own view—is like, why do you think the first era of corporate chains didn't work?

SPEAKER_00: I think the biggest factor is that the organizations were not ready to behave in a blockchain way. And at the time that manifested in feature requests like, it's missing X. Can my competitors see my customers? Like, what, what are the balances? What are the, you know, will they be able to see total trading volumes, sales volumes, you know, and that's still a problem on the public nets, etc., but it's sort of just like you kind of have to let it be, embrace it. Like they would have had to like turn it on persistently at small volume and then like kind of let it grow and fix the problems as they went. And what they instead wanted was like a totally complete product that fits perfectly in their current workflow and existing regular—like one thing people really are using are seem to sincerely be using stables for like global internal clearing and settlement. And we actually, you know, I won't say the names, but we competed for—didn't win a project—for like a big, call them a utility that's global to do that. And the use case was actually really good, and they had such tremendous volumes that like dealing with the currency fluctuations was like a giant line item that they had to deal with, and they wanted a permissioned chain for it. You could just do it with stables today. That's why there always be a little bit of demand for non-USD stables. But you may as well just use the public chains to move money around the world now. Right. And then you could build from that into various other use cases. I believe Stripe even does this. I think I've seen them say that.

SPEAKER_01: And PayPal does it. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And that's what they would have needed to do. And instead it was like they had to like go very top-down. There's budgeting, setting up legal entities, maybe investing in a consortium, you know, very tight rules about how the data can flow, which data, all that sort of thing, and it sort of leads to like a strangulation where you would kind of just need to like let it bloom a little bit. And that's what the public chains did. They also had the incentive mechanism. It's not like there's a ton of corporate usage of public chains now, although I guess there's like institutional style financial usage that's now got quite large. But even for like—I think you'll see some just corporate operational stuff, which again the like stablecoin, you know, global clearing, remittance settlement, remittance stuff is starting to get there. I think that will happen the way I described as opposed to again like the—these folks all have done extremely heavy IT implementations. Like I've heard that at least in the era when Oracle and SAP were big at it, on average an ERP implementation takes 5% of global revenue no matter the size of the. So like the bigger you are just like, like, like—I think Victor, maybe you mentioned to me once I was working on one for like a full.

SPEAKER_01: Decade, and when I started—I, when I started at a company, they were, they had already been working on an SAP implementation, and when I left six years later, they were still working on it. So it was just like, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: It's hard to do things incrementally in corporate, but it's in part because it's super complicated and very regulated and whatever. But it's also mentality too. Like just kind of like put, turn it on and then just started. I imagine this is what happened with the cloud. Like they're like, all right, let me just, let me just do this one little thing and it's easy, and you keep just putting more and more of on there, and now you have like—I think like JP Morgan turned almost all of its on-prem stuff off and it's all on Amazon or all on, you know, and so I think that was the problem. And the consortium model really means you gotta like pre-think and have like multi-party agreements with everybody. And like then it's, you know, you—the negotiation was endless. It's hard to do the data modeling. You know that. I think that was the problem at its core. But I think it came down—if the corporations like had this like, let's just play with it mentality