SPEAKER_05: My name is Karen James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. we're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened And so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad. of Bitcoin, and I distinctly remember it being $3 down from a recent peak of $14 or $15. I thought it was interesting and looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. If you ask me, then I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

SPEAKER_02: that said let me hand the question over to jim when were you first aware of bitcoin aware is different than like interested in fact like i i don't know i was like i came from an academic background so i'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it but but i was like a little bit too above all that like oh that's like a money thing i'm not interested in that money world so uh uh really no like the interest came from when you reached out to steve who was a uh uh an old friend of mine and that uh uh um kieran had been following his blog and and uh steve called me up and he's like uh this guy kieran just called me up and you you have to go look at this ethereum thing and so uh at first i was like uh yeah you know i'm not interested in all this this uh uh fake money thing and i went and i read the white paper And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

SPEAKER_05: uh and uh and that's when i started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there so well i don't know let me pass it on to victor yeah let's uh jim will pick that up i'm trying a little bit stay chronological so i you know i was 2010 2011 sounds like same time frame for you i think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era um and we'll talk in in more detail uh but let's let's hold on it for just moment uh vic do you want to take it

SPEAKER_00: yeah I think I became aware of it um around the same time as you I was I was um you know doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time and I I felt really disconnected from North America so I became sort of an early fan of podcasts and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called twit that was like all technical podcasts and one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast security now which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things and he did like a couple episodes of Bitcoin and I was like you know really really fascinated by it but mostly from a technical angle like and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it didn't get any Bitcoin or if I did uh I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can... transfer money and like it's basically free internet magic money and I was like I I honestly was kind of repelled by that like that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time did we all hate it before we liked it

SPEAKER_05: I never hated it I was sort of just like not that interested I guess um you know I think um you know from the East Coast um the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like

SPEAKER_02: yeah you know after your physics days you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like like I guess I didn't hate it I just felt I was too good for it but I think I found the like

SPEAKER_00: like everyone talked about so I was fascinated the technical aspect like I said like you know and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software but I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs they're like they were like kind of fanatical like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off I would say

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored. Crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like. the most horsepower wins from a you know intellectual perspective and I guess the hardest working horsepower very few of those people got interested um and in uh you know crypto blockchain a few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones um as far as uh you know compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Bonet etc but yeah I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess. Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was

SPEAKER_00: sketchy because most of the use cases that like i thought the technology was fascinating but whenever i would ask about you know i'm a product guy so i would always ask like what's the use case why would you use it and people would describe you know things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in china that i remember is like oh i can transfer money and bypass you know foreign exchange rules and stuff and i was like is that legal like no one would you know

SPEAKER_02: mention anything afterwards basically yeah well i got over feeling uh too good for it i'll tell you that yeah and we all did yeah

SPEAKER_05: I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. So somebody said consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not...

SPEAKER_02: quite crypto savvy in the industry et cetera were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox was happening just getting into things I I what year was it was it 2015 2014 2014 probably right I think Docs was 13. let me check yeah okay 13. yeah okay so that was a little before but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time um uh i was new enough to it that it was still i was observing it as a you know like a third party you know it was it was interesting to me but but yeah i think i i spent a little time to understand what because you know the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it they didn't explain what was going on so i spent a little time to understand that yes there was a problem but no it had nothing to do with blockchain it was uh it was oh there's

SPEAKER_05: I think you're right, so the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14 it looks like or okay so it officially shuttered February 2014. Though, and the big the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013 it looks like. When did the hock happen. December. Oh, I think right here okay okay yeah right there yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, interesting times for sure. Because I think about Mt. Gox and, oh, what was... I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that, you know, dark wood marketplace that used... Silk Road. Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's... those were kind of intertwined in those early days right so I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about and I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there like you know lots of illicit stuff was a list listed there you know

SPEAKER_05: that's wow you know I think I never did that I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road um just heard about it at like I had a mount gox account um and some others there was a period where like uh dwala was doing crypto stuff um and then I think they stopped um and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company um but um yeah because I definitely use them and some others

SPEAKER_00: I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other and that was like the sort of like you know as we've as you mentioned like the first kind of iteration of like oh you know all crypto and blockchain is dead now and then it just keeps coming back right

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it sure does. There's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional world. If there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, it might mean that we need a little more regulation or something, but that was a bad person. so it's always like uh much more tied into you know that the price of of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens but you don't see like e crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere I mean I guess fraud's big enough but yeah I agreed um just a segue yeah

SPEAKER_05: segueing quickly can you guys go into how you met because you guys met first and then we can do the whole how we all yeah Jim do do I do I want to start or do you want to start

SPEAKER_02: Uh, I'll start and I'll pass it over. I, uh, actually, so I had, uh, uh, back in the nineties, I was an academia and, uh, in the aughts, I was, uh, in the startup world and I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups and I had, uh, two sons who were in the, our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now. And let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China. and actually put them in a school there so I called around some various friends and uh one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing and uh he says I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys so in fact let me pass it over to you right now and you can

SPEAKER_00: Well, yeah. And so the VC, you know, who we're still friends with, like he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started. talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country so you were like in a different place every another advantage of us both uh uh being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country and and I remember like know like we were kind of talking over the summer and I was like you know seeing how serious you were about coming and and at one point you said okay look if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing I will come and take the job to Beijing and I went to the school that my kids went to which and said like you know can you make space for um you know two foreign kids this inter international program they said yes if you can but the kids have to be here the first day of school and first day of school was two weeks from that conversation so I called Jim up and said look I can do it

SPEAKER_02: you know I can guarantee a place for them but you have to be here on this day and to my shock he actually said yes and he like talked up his house and like everything in the house in like I think we had 12 days to be in school and we probably were had the had to have the house back within like like I don't know less than a week so that was a crazy week but but uh victor was a uh great help in like we were going to a country we'd never been to before didn't know much about victor had also uh moved to asia a few years earlier and so he had sort of scoped out everything and he knew he knew where the good schools were he knew where the good apartment buildings were helped us out tremendously so yeah it was a great experience it was an exciting time to be in china was right around the first olympics you know

SPEAKER_00: like it was right around that the Beijing Olympics and so it's a really exciting time but yeah you wound up saying for about 18 months right in total and um a little less but yeah it was it was over a year yeah and then we just kept in touch from there like we loved working together yeah what year did you arrive um what was this rough time yeah who are you asking because it was different uh you Jim

SPEAKER_02: oh 2011. 2011 summer we're driving all over the country 2011 September August I can't remember we were we were in Beijing gotcha gotcha very cool and so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013 something like that yeah we were back at um when did we come back I guess we were back in the country in 2013. gotcha but like January

SPEAKER_05: Let me, I'll segue, I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically the... I had passed my qualifying exam. I'm going to say spring 2014, or maybe May, April or May 2014. So for those who are not aware of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. So sometimes it's a coursework requirement. Sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from like an academic work from one language to to another to show proficiency. I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point. And so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study, intense prep at Berkeley. It's a three hour oral exam with a couple of people from your department and one from an external department. And then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass. Thankfully, it was a. I don't know that it was it was everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good right like and you know so while I passed it I it was like you know didn't feel great the at least the rest of that day um when did you find out the result like immediately oh you do okay you put you in the hall and they tell you

SPEAKER_02: yeah okay that's good so you're just like very nervous I don't know what it was like for you but for me it was just like three guys I knew and I I was nervous too but it wasn't like they had to go and like uh you know like calculate numbers or something they just kind of come out and they're like yeah yeah yeah exactly it was no it was like that right yeah it's it's a oral it's

SPEAKER_05: Subject