SPEAKER_05: My name is Kieren James-Lubin. I'm joined by Jim Hermosdiar and Viktor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called BlockApps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. So we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad.

I distinctly remember it being $3 down from a recent peak of $14 or $15. I thought it was interesting and looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. If you ask me, then I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

SPEAKER_02: That said let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested. I, uh, I don't know, I was like a little bit too above all that. Like oh, that's like a money thing. I'm not interested in that money world. So, uh, uh, really no. Like the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, who was an old friend of mine, and that, uh, uh, an old friend of mine. And he's like, uh, this guy Kieren just called me up and you, you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so, uh, at first, I was like, uh, yeah, you know, I'm not interested in all this this, uh, uh, fake money thing. And I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

SPEAKER_05: Uh, and uh, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. So well, I don't know. Let me pass it on to Viktor. Yeah, let's, uh, Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit to stay chronological, so I, you know, I was 2010, 2011. Sounds like the same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era. Um, and we'll talk in more detail, uh, but let's, let's hold on it for just a moment. Uh, Vik, do you want to take it?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I think I became aware of it, um, around the same time as you. I was, I was, um, you know, doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time. And I, I felt really disconnected from North America. So I became sort of an early fan of podcasts, and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called TWiT that was like all technical podcasts. And one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast, Security Now, which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things. And he did like a couple episodes of Bitcoin. And I was like, you know, really, really fascinated by it. But mostly from a technical angle, like even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it. Didn't get any Bitcoin or if I did, uh, I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can transfer money and like it's basically free internet magic money. And I was like, I, I honestly was kind of repelled by that. Like that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time. Did we all hate it before we liked it?

SPEAKER_05: I never hated it. I was sort of just like not that interested, I guess. Um, you know, I think, um, you know, from the East Coast, um, the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like, like, I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. But I think I found the, like.

SPEAKER_00: Like everyone talked about, so I was fascinated, the technical aspect, like I said, like you know, and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like they were like kind of fanatical. Like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off. I would say.

SPEAKER_05: Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like, the most horsepower wins from a, you know, intellectual perspective. And I guess the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested, um, and in, uh, you know, crypto blockchain, a few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones, um, as far as, uh, you know, compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Boneh, etc. But yeah, I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess. Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was.

SPEAKER_00: Sketchy because most of the use cases that, like, I thought the technology was fascinating. But whenever I would ask about, you know, I'm a product guy, so I would always ask like what's the use case? Why would you use it? And people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in China that I remember is like, oh, I can transfer money and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules and stuff. And I was like, is that legal? Like no one would, you know.

SPEAKER_02: Mention anything afterwards, basically. Yeah, well, I got over feeling, uh, too good for it. I'll tell you that. Yeah, and we all did. Yeah.

SPEAKER_05: I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. So somebody said consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not.

SPEAKER_02: Quite crypto savvy in the industry, et cetera, were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox was happening. Just getting into things. I, I, what year was it? Was it 2015, 2014, 2014 probably right. I think Docs was 13. Let me check. Yeah, okay, 13. Yeah, okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. Um, uh, I was new enough to it that it was still, I was observing it as a, you know, like a third party. You know, it was, it was interesting to me. But but yeah, I think I, I spent a little time to understand what because you know the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that yes, there was a problem, but no, it had nothing to do with blockchain. It was, uh, it was. Oh, there's.

SPEAKER_05: I think you're right. So the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14. It looks like or okay. So it officially shuttered February 2014. Though, and the big, the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013. It looks like. When did the hack happen? December. Oh, I think right here. Okay, okay. Yeah, right there. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, interesting times for sure. Because I think about Mt. Gox and, oh, what was, I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that, you know, dark wood marketplace that used. Silk Road. Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's, those were kind of intertwined in those early days, right? So I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about. And I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there. Like you know, lots of illicit stuff was listed there. You know.

SPEAKER_05: That's wow. You know, I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road, um, just heard about it at like I had a Mt. Gox account, um, and some others there. There was a period where, like, Dwolla was doing crypto stuff, um, and then I think they stopped. Um, and then I think they're still around as like a payment API company. Um, but um, yeah, because I definitely use them and some others.

SPEAKER_00: I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other. And that was like the sort of like, you know, as we've, as you mentioned, like the first kind of iteration of like, oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now. And then it just keeps coming back, right.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it sure does. There's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional world. If there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, it might mean that we need a little more regulation or something, but that was a bad person. So it's always like, uh, much more tied into, you know, that the price of, of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens. But you don't see like, e, crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess fraud's big enough, but yeah, I agreed. Um, just a segue. Yeah.

SPEAKER_05: Segueing quickly, can you guys go into how you met because you guys met first and then we can do the whole how we all. Yeah, Jim, do, do I do I want to start or do you want to start?

SPEAKER_02: Uh, I'll start and I'll pass it over. I, uh, actually, so I had, uh, uh, back in the nineties, I was an academia and, uh, in the aughts, I was, uh, in the startup world and I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups. And I had, uh, two sons who were in the, our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now. And let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China. And actually put them in a school there. So I called around some various friends and, uh, one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Viktor's in Beijing. And, uh, he says, I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys. So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now and you can.

SPEAKER_00: Well, yeah. And so the VC, you know, who we're still friends with, like he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started, talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, know like we were kind of talking over the summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh,