SPEAKER_00: Okay, I think we are live.

SPEAKER_01: Live us.

SPEAKER_00: Let's just give a minute for people to join.

SPEAKER_01: Alrighty.

SPEAKER_02: So I looked at the background noise reduction. It says not supported in this browser. I'm using Firefox. Perhaps it has to be Chrome.

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: You must pick from the two available choices.

SPEAKER_00: Safari. Yeah, Safari has a huge amount just because of the iPhone.

SPEAKER_01: Is it called Edge still?

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_02: Nobody uses Edge. Nobody uses it.

SPEAKER_01: I bet you it's a lot. Hold on.

SPEAKER_02: I seem to remember seeing, and I can't remember if it was on Edge or Bing or probably both. But the most searched thing was how to install Chrome.

SPEAKER_01: That's funny. Try though. They might. Wow. Chrome just continues to rise in market share. It's gone from 66% roughly about a year ago to 72% now worldwide. Safari is trending down. Yeah, they're just pretty tiny. Wow. Opera is still around. That's amazing.

SPEAKER_02: They all use Chromium though.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, fair enough.

SPEAKER_00: Oddly, my son uses Opera. Okay, we are live now on Twitter.

SPEAKER_01: Live. Live.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, so should we wait another minute or should we just start?

SPEAKER_01: That's a good question. We can ease into the substance of the content. Do we have any minute-long non sequiturs or code opens?

SPEAKER_00: Well, maybe we should do our intros because we—

SPEAKER_01: Okay, we could do the intros. So—

SPEAKER_00: Hi everyone. Welcome to our weekly show. If you don't know, we are all part of the Strato Mercado project, which is a Layer 1 EVM-compatible blockchain focused on bringing DeFi to the masses. Now we, the three of us here, are all longtime builders and all Ethereum OGs. I'm Victor Wong. Vic.

SPEAKER_01: I don't know if you can describe yourself as an OG. I think someone else has to describe—

SPEAKER_00: Someone else to bestow that.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, you two. No, you.

SPEAKER_02: Can we say it to each other?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Can we say you are an OG?

SPEAKER_00: But—but yeah, I said that as a—

SPEAKER_01: Collection in a circle.

SPEAKER_00: Right, exactly.

SPEAKER_01: You can tell Bob. Bob's an OG. Bob can tell me. I can tell you.

SPEAKER_00: Yes. So we've been building since the launch of Ethereum and continue to follow this journey. So you'll get hopefully no shilling and a lot of good historical context about what we're going to talk about today. Today we are going to talk about the highlights from Token 2049 and whether it was more boring or more crazy in terms of the blockchain world. Joining me is Bob Summerwill. Bob, you want to do a quick intro?

SPEAKER_02: Hi there, I'm Bob Summerwill. We are all—we're not old, we're all very experienced. But yes, I'm head of ecosystem.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And Karen, of course.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I am also experienced. You know, not as long as you can be in the space, but it's starting to feel like it. Right. Like we've really been around for some time. But yes, I'm—

SPEAKER_00: I—I will bestow the OG title on you, Karen. So we could go. I mean, anyone that's been around since before the launch of Ethereum and was part of it, I think that would be—we can claim that title.

SPEAKER_01: How the time goes.

SPEAKER_00: So I will say that I was not in Singapore. I kind of played hooky with Kieren's approval. You know, international travel is brutal, but Bob and Kieren were there. And why? To get your kind of impressions. What do you think the big themes this year were at Token 2049?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Bunch of big topics. One thing that was notable is that it felt like meme coins had almost completely vanished. And there was a lot of that the previous year.

SPEAKER_00: And can I pour one out for the meme coins?

SPEAKER_01: Basically, in meme coins' defense, I'm actually kind of pro meme coin. The problem is just the time horizon that people—people want to make money in, like, seconds. Like, I think if a meme around a concept can kind of grow organically for some period of time, that's great.

SPEAKER_02: But—

SPEAKER_01: But yeah, it's just the impatience and nihilism seems to increase with each cycle. But maybe not this one. So the conference felt kind of less scammy in general. And a lot of digital asset treasury talk—I think we can go into that as we go. A lot of stablecoin talk, you know, a lot of merger with TradFi sort of feel. I also think something has changed. And I can't tell if it's just that we're all being bombarded with the same content or something's qualitatively different about the world. Where like a year ago it felt like crypto was sort of peripheral to the problems with the world. And now it feels like it's a big part of the solution. It's very strange. And everyone sort of acknowledges that, you know, like Donald Trump Jr. Donald Trump Jr. was there. Like, that's a big changeover where you just feel, you know, like some weeks ago, Putin made his comments about how the United States was trying to use stablecoins to export American inflation, which is probably true, but it's like that's a big turnaround—from the top policy as opposed to just—and you felt that at the conference as well.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I mean that wasn't new on the Bitcoin conference side. So I was in Nashville 2014 and Vegas—sorry, 2014, 2020, 2024—and then this July in Vegas. So in Nashville last year you had Trump, RFK Jr. Then this year you had both Trump boys. Don Jr. and Eric were both there, and oh my goodness, I'm forgetting his name from the UK. It will come to me in a second. But yeah, and also, you know, like tons of other Congress people and state-level stuff. That's been a real theme well in advance on the Bitcoin side. I mean, I guess essentially because you've already got that monetary store-of-value use case. It's like getting into these boring ETF, you know, treasury company, government-level adoption sort of stuff that's happened earlier on the Bitcoin side than more generally. But yeah, also I mean obviously like the Trumps have got their World Liberty nonsense going on and gotta be pumping that one.

SPEAKER_00: Well, actually that's a good transition. So you know, we couldn't internally decide whether the conference was more boring or more crazy than usual. You kind of talked about the boring elements, I guess, you know, more institutional. And I'm curious—since this is in Singapore, a very global conference—what countries outside the US seem to be moving in this direction? You know, like obviously the US has been a holdout for a really long time, but how are things getting boring and how are things getting more global?

SPEAKER_01: Bob, I want to remind you not to criticize our friends in Washington, at least in a public forum, supporters of the—

SPEAKER_02: I'm not getting back in.

SPEAKER_01: So the—yeah, so it's an interesting feel. The conference obviously represented people who are close by pretty well, but also, you know, some, a good number of people from let's say UAE, some Europe. Plenty of Americans who did the really long trip. Lots, lots of Americans I would say. And yeah, I think it's a strange—the institutional feeling was much stronger than the prior year, and it's not that much time to have passed. Like there were many—you know, the stablecoin. Stablecoins have this institutional feel to them. Even you know, at the beginning they didn't. And it is funny to watch. Like, you know, I see these announcements, like, you know, Tether's coming to the US and we've set up a nice regulatory framework that they can work with. And I went to a side event and met some of the Tether people. It's also just funny to see them in the media, like buying sports teams and all of that. Like at a certain point you get big enough, you become institutional.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: But yeah, I think, you know, even last year it felt like blockchain technology at the maybe lower levels of the stack disproportionately gets created in the broader West. Right. And maybe that with the exception of some of the exchanges and such, and it gets used outside the West more. So you see stablecoin balances—they're big in the US, but it's really a global story. Tether in particular being much larger than Circle. Obviously, I think both of them—you know, Tether purports not to serve the US; I'm sure there's plenty of US USDT holders. Circle maybe preferencing the US but probably covers global as well. It's a funny feeling in which the people at the conference are a little more like users than builders. And there's also just—I mean, the feel of Token is a little like someone described it to me, kind of like Comic Con. And I thought that was actually very apt. Like there's people in funny—like, you know, they're like astronauts. You could take yourself as an astronaut with Justin Sun pictures. I think Bob has one and like lots of shiny outfits. And I think the world's tallest man was there—sadly in a wheelchair. I think he has a hard time standing. Yes, for at least for long periods of time. It was like you saw this horse in a wheelchair. I was like, no, that's a human. Like, you know, like a really large—I don't know, 8'6" or 7'10" or so. Like a really large human being.

SPEAKER_00: Well, he probably has to be in a wheelchair just so he doesn't bump his head on every door frame that is out there. You know what I mean?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, exactly. And so the mix—definitely a big global conference. I think they usually get the number you hear is like 20-ish thousand people coming from hubs. You know, again, a lot of UAE.

SPEAKER_00: Good.

SPEAKER_01: Some of the European hubs and big US contingents. Very long flight for us. But yeah, it was great. You know, Singapore also just a great place to hang out and pretty good representation of the global scene, if you will. There's also—I don't know if this perfectly ties into the global amount—there's the feeling that the same people are manning the booths last year. This year I've also heard it's a very expensive conference. But the companies have in many cases changed except for like the very big ones—the headliners, people get invited to the stage, etc.—a lot of turnover in who was represented at the conference. So you know, in some ways being a media company is one of the better ways to survive cycles in crypto—you know, just someone will pay that big conference figure.

SPEAKER_00: And it seems those fees are getting bigger and bigger too. Right. It's just very, very—

SPEAKER_01: Cool garbage.

SPEAKER_00: So yeah. And we don't want to keep you too long. Obviously you got important things to do around the house. Bob, what do you think about the global and the boring part of it?

SPEAKER_02: So, yeah, I mean, I guess just something else to say is I have been to a lot of conferences—I've never seen somewhere with so much floor space of expo halls—just on and on and on. Like, honestly, like city blocks, many, many city blocks worth of stuff. And then you go, "All right, yeah, there's another whole floor of this." Yeah, yeah, it's twice as much as you thought.

SPEAKER_00: Even bigger than DEFCON in Thailand last year. Because I remember looking at my step tracker and seeing like, oh man, I did 15,000 steps in the conference center.

SPEAKER_02: Bigger in terms of the expo area. Certainly, you know, like DEFCON was a large floor area, but it was lots and lots of different rooms of talks and then little stores, whereas this is just expo hall of selling. I don't know what most of them were. Thousands and thousands of projects that you've never heard of doing a thing that is pretty indistinguishable from everybody else. So yeah, talking about the turnover—Kieren and me, and I'm sure that's the case—the vast majority of them are going to be gone in a year's time and never even know they happened.

SPEAKER_00: But so do you guys think the boringness comes from institutions themselves or what they're doing? Because everyone seems to be doing like stablecoin or treasury company—you know, like those seem to be the two options.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I think it's a strange thing in which the meme coins ended to some degree with the US elections. And like, I feel like Libra was really the end—you know, in which a coin associated with a public official did pretty badly for the people involved.

SPEAKER_00: And sorry, I thought you were talking about the Facebook Libra.

SPEAKER_01: No, no, no, no. Yeah, the meme associated—

SPEAKER_02: There's a hot tour coin as well, wasn't there?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I think that was before though. I feel like that was not the end. But, but yes, it's sort of—you know, I think they've kind of peaked. Pump.fun still seems to be doing lots and lots of launches in revenue. But I just—no one's really talking that much about it anymore. And we're getting back to something like you either have to have tech or now you have to have revenue. And it's gotten almost like a mirror of the public equity markets in which people are—I something I might want to talk about at more length another time. I keep seeing criticism of say Uniswap because they generate a lot of fees, but a lot of those fees go directly to the lab company and they don't go to the protocol—and they have to turn the protocol fees on and would then start theoretically buying back the token. Whereas folks like Hyper Liquid, there's no lab skim and there are pretty big buybacks going on and the token price has gone up. And you know, people argue Uniswap has a kind of conflict of interest there. But anyway, to the point being—suddenly it all became about revenue. US dollar-denominated yields, like how to do not quite a SPAC-like move. Most of these treasury companies are an existing publicly traded company. And there's maybe not a formal takeover with a change of control, but usually like an injection of capital that the company's doing something else right now and then it starts digital asset treasury operations. You know, like there was a panel—Tom Lee gave a lot of numbers on how big his digital asset treasury company is, what chunk of ETH it holds, you know, now what the trend is—all that sort of thing. And they've—I guess Michael Saylor kind of pioneered. I don't know if he was there. I don't think he was—some of the financial engineering that kind of creatively let him acquire as much Bitcoin as possible. And all these folks are then kind of in the—I would argue like a part of the TradFi mindset. People make complicated products that sort of favor the house in a sense. So that no matter what, like the client has an idea, but the institution does okay. Right. And some analog of that is going on. People are purchasing a lot of the time—you would just want to hold tokens directly as opposed to invest in a digital assets treasury, I guess. I think the digital asset treasuries may be better than the ETFs. The ETFs promise to do nothing and charge a fee, whereas the digital asset treasuries don't really charge a fee and maybe do something creative. So you know, it's like the entrance of a new venue of financial engineering. But I also think they're kind of brilliant in the following sense. It's a tremendous pain to be a publicly traded US company. It's expensive, there's a lot of compliance burden. So tokens are out there. They get liquidity in some ways. You might want liquidity from the US public equity markets for your token. You could do this by IPOing a company—like Coinbase is sort of a vehicle for that. But then you've got to report on the extremely complicated, no doubt operations of Coinbase and it's whatever thousand employees and all that. Or you could just have a thing buy the token and then you never have to IPO the labs company and you can kind of just get all of the capital without the much heavier reporting burden of being a publicly traded actual company. And this is like kind of genius. Like, it's a great way to bring in more kind of bigger, more boring, more conservative capital while not changing the premise that much. So yeah, it's gotten—the suits are good at that, you know, and the digital asset treasuries provide a good wrapper for the thing that probably most of us would hold as spot.

SPEAKER_00: By the way, we have a comment from Sheba who says he loves your take on meme ecosystems. Yeah, you know, not surprisingly has their own meme ecosystem.

SPEAKER_01: You gotta hold all the memes. That's the key.

SPEAKER_00: Shout out to Yoshima. Bob, so what do you think about treasuries and stablecoins?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I mean, I guess this is all sort of maturity and it's a strange kind of feeling. You know, looking back on all of our joint experience—on enterprise Ethereum efforts kicking off in 2016, 2017—and really the thought there that all of these public and private use cases could all be met by suitably modular code bases and thinking EVMs. And here we are—you've got Stripe announcing Tempo and having a consortium of companies doing that kind of payments setup. And then you've got NASDAQ announcing equities on chain again with a Bazooka derivative. And then you've got Base and Coinbase. And you know, all of these things are happening in a very similar kind of form to what we were shooting for all that time back. And that's—you know, while these things are kind of a bit boring, it is also quite amazing that we've got to that place that these very conservative incumbents have caught up without thinking. You know, yeah, it's pretty amazing.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I think part of it—and maybe one of the reasons as builders we find it boring—is that effectively there are no tech innovations really that are driving this. Right. It's really about people who already have a bunch of money pouring more money into it, you know.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I felt the seams of it at a time. You know, I think most markets—much of the space was extremely eager for institutional approval, even with some nominal hostility to it. And I now feel the emotion that like, I'm almost don't want it. I'm like, get out of here. Like, I want it to go back. You know, I guess I'm happy maybe about the asset values, although it's not my primary motivation at all. But I hope that they don't—because the thing you see with like the Web2 world—while the Internet remains at least kind of open, the people use like six apps. And so it's just pretty easy to affect the whole planet of users of the Internet just through these six apps.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And I kind of—it could easily happen that way in crypto, where crypto itself remains totally open. But like, as a for instance, so the company—we have a Coinbase account which we use a little bit, and they are way more difficult and onerous and making information requests all the time than any bank I've dealt with. It's bizarre. Like, they try to introduce a whitelist for like the accounts you could send out to. This is like a month ago—apparently you could turn this feature off and it's for your protection, you know, in case someone's gotten in there. But it's like—you're worse than the thing you said that you were setting out to destroy from a "our money" perspective. And that feels—you know, I'm happy that the GENIUS Act passed, I think, but it also has that feel too. Coinbase itself is now in like a fight with the bags. Like, wait, we didn't mean—we didn't mean you could do this, that we wanted all yield bans, so—

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean, they do get leaned on more than the banks though, right? Because they're kind of in this new energy area. So you know, all of this stuff is just very rigid and defined and the borders never move on the bank side. But then, on a crypto exchange side, it's kind of a bit of both. And so they're always going to be moving around a bit and they're always going to get wiped down.

SPEAKER_01: I think fintechs in general—they're like maybe a little leaner, probably a little faster on things than the banks. And it almost feels like they're overzealous in terms of their compliance posture because they feel that they can get kicked around in a way. Like the banks are just a little less worried. The banks are—tons of them have been leaned on too, right, in very much the same way, but it seems like a slower and less aggressive process somehow.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean, because they're generally not trying to do new things. Right. You know, the fintechs are moving around—so it might be like we're all compliant and good today, but then we might be doing a new thing next week and oh no, they don't like that. So we better be on good behavior, get the brownie points. Whereas the banks are very rarely doing anything new and different. So they don't really worry so much, I don't think.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean I kind of feel like what we've really seen is just like regulation was like the lid on a bucket and the minute you move that lid, the demand—the real level of demand that we're seeing now—is what sort of always existed, but it's just been held back for really long.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, the—I don't know if you ever said the Circle IPO was kind of crazy. It showed just like how much it went up after listing—how much pent-up demand is out there. If this is even like slightly allowed.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And I feel like the treasury companies are a similar thing. Right. All of that—well, while we're getting to that point, how do you think things are getting a little bit more crazier than last year?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, things are happening fast. The turnover is still huge in the space. I would say there are still lots of good new projects that feel like they come out of nowhere and are pretty successful. Like, I'm friends socially with the CEO of Lighter, and he told me about it like a year and a half ago or two. Like I read the paper, I was like, okay, I kind of get it—like circuits for matching and so on. It's huge now—like over—and then the DEX wars are just sort of heating up. The perp DEXs—there's like a new perp DEX. I'm in it. Yeah, I think the pace at which things can happen seems to just be accelerating and the cycles. So I was talking to a friend who's kind of an investor, kind of runs an incubator sort of thing, and he said that he's done better not thinking about it as a four-year cycle anymore because it sort of feels like they're compressing and they're kind of mini cycles within the cycle. And yeah, I suppose just everything is heating up in that way.

SPEAKER_00: I'll—

SPEAKER_01: A friend of ours sort of made a joke—so in the US, probably in Canada—we do not have a booth babe culture. Maybe I'd heard that like, you know—

SPEAKER_00: This existed—that used to be—

SPEAKER_01: Yes, we had one.

SPEAKER_00: As someone who's gone to like practically illegal—

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes, I think booth babes are gone, but Token was very much like a booth babe conference. And in fact, they were sort of like almost like seemingly more of them than last year. And then this led to like—does this mean we're near the top? Like, you know, is the price speculation at a maximum at this moment? And I got—you know, it wasn't euphoria, but people were feeling pretty good. And I like a conference when people are feeling a little shitty.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Because—

SPEAKER_01: Because then you know there's room for things to run. I think—for better, for worse—interest in the industry as a whole just trends upwards with prices. So like it's good for us for prices to go up. But yeah, I mean it—I could see. I think the digital asset treasuries too are also evidence that it's kind of late cycle. But even still stuff is just happening really quickly. Like—I think products kind of mostly work in crypto now. There's a strange moment where like DeFi just worked. And this is part of the reason we really got into it. It definitely only kind of worked through 2021, 2022, maybe even 2023. And then it just kind of functions and it's big. Like every week or so I see like one of the A16Z people tweet like how big it would be compared to the US banks—and it's like 47, 43, 36—you know, it's running. And so there's a feeling of inevitability that kicked in for me like a couple months ago that I've never quite felt.

SPEAKER_00: What about you, Bob? What did you find on the craziness level? What do you think is—I can't—

SPEAKER_02: Have been in the right bit of the building. I didn't see any booth babes. Where were they? Lots of people, lots of people in like the costumes—the mascots or what have you. But something else I was just thinking—which is good, talking about top signals—is there wasn't an excess of Ripple representation. So because that's always a good top sign, right? If there's lots of interest in XRP, that signals new entries into the market.

SPEAKER_01: I wonder if that's changed. It used to be like—I've both experienced in my face-to-face life and like on crypto Twitter—it's like when your dentist or realtor friend asks you about what you think about Cardano or Ripple, then it's time to sell, you know. But—

SPEAKER_02: There was plenty of Chart.

SPEAKER_01: There's plenty—

SPEAKER_02: There was plenty, plenty of Charles, but no Ripplers.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I wonder what was it? I think BNB flipped XRP recently.

SPEAKER_02: They did. I just saw that. Yeah, up to number three.

SPEAKER_01: Amazing.

SPEAKER_00: How are you guys feeling about—like—having been in the space for so long—that long-term projects like MetaMask are now launching a token?

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah, yeah, that's. This is another part of the crazy. This is a good reminder. I think it basically just a lot was held back by uncertainty. And so like the high-quality stuff—a strange thing about the Gensler era was that it felt like at least the Eye of Sauron was on the good projects and the bad projects in a sense were sort of left to run—and the good ones. So like, like any industry—if you looked at all of the businesses, most of them are bad. Most of them go out of business. And if you imagine if you made all the businesses publicly traded, most of the stocks would go to zero. So you would kind of expect in crypto that like most tokens are bad. You know, it's sort of like what you would see if you just made essentially no barriers to entry to publicly listing stock. Not the tokens are stock, but anyway. So however, if you kind of market cap weighted, you would probably find that the things near the top are pretty high quality. And then sometimes things will come out of the bottom and go into the top. But they're like, by and large, you should sort of forget about that long tail of things. And it did feel like to a significant degree, the eye was on the big things and it tried to destroy them before there was a token or freeze them or what have you. And it left the bad stuff to run amok, contributing to the impression that the space was just like all scams. And like, it might be all scams by number of projects. Like the average project might be a scam or just not worth any value, but like—the average business is not a good business. But the big ones are good most of the time, not all. And they're kind of just being allowed out, you know. Again, Circle IPO, good example. MetaMask token—you know, it's like probably they should have had one a long time ago. Like, yeah, for a long time they probably wanted a token, you know.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I remember the height of this for me was when the SEC filed charges against Binance and Coinbase in the same week. It's like—we're just gonna look at something with the word exchange in it and then go after that. Right. Like, it's like the most compliant exchange and the least compliant exchange, you know, it's—

SPEAKER_02: No, no, it's—I mean, the other thing that you had there was—yeah, it was like the good actors that were getting the legal action.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, exactly.

SPEAKER_02: Basically because the good actors were staying on shore and trying to work through the thing and get to a resolution. Whereas all the baddies are just like, yeah, we're out of here. We're not serving US people. Right, we're scamming away. We're not even going to make any effort to be compliant of anything, and you can't get us, you know. So it was almost by definition that the good actors were the ones that got whacked because they stayed around to get whacked and kept coming back for more and more whacking until, you know, the whacking ceased eventually. But yeah—I mean I think another crazy thing is I think we're going to have masses of ICOs, like tons and tons of them coming up.

SPEAKER_00: Well, on that I think we've crossed the 30-minute mark. I want to ask you guys—do you have any closing thoughts about Token 2049 or where we're at in the overall state of blockchain?

SPEAKER_01: One thing I would say—I was reminded food is excellent in Singapore. If you go to hawker markets. There was a hawker market in the conference. It was kind of crazy. They made one, you know—it was very cool. I'm pretty optimistic. These are good times. Lot of work ahead, obviously. I think but yeah, it feels like it was a good marker of some sort of tipping point again. For a couple months I've been feeling the inevitability kind of based—even though parts of me doesn't like it—on the institutional buy-in. It's gotten to the point where I think they don't just roll it back like they did last time. Like, you know, customers are demanding it. And you know, like I think people who said they'd never custody crypto just stood it up quickly. And you know, it's probably too intermingled now to really remove the next—if sentiment changes towards crypto in the US and elsewhere, then there's like a lot of thinking to do about what—completing the product so to speak. Like, it's a strange thing in which retail was in for a while and maybe got burned—kind of culminating with FTX. It probably hasn't come back all that much. And the institutions are in now, which means that retail